[prompt 1]

I have to make another forecast for: The next weekly update for the Weekly Initial Unemployment 
Claims will be made on Thursday, September 17 (for the week ending Saturday, September 12). I have 
a few files that I'm going to upload, and I want to see which ones are correlated with the variable 
I need to make a forecast for.

[prompt 2]

I have to make another forecast for: The next weekly update for the Weekly Initial Unemployment 
Claims will be made on Thursday, September 17 (for the week ending Saturday, September 12). I have 
a few files that I'm going to upload, and I want to see which ones are correlated with the variable 
I need to make a forecast for.

[prompt 3]

would including nvur skew the data in any way, considering that I'm forecasting unemployment based on 
unemployment of nevada, which i would expect to be correlated anyway? I mean, is this like double counting, 
or what is the word or concept that I'm thinking of? like basing the forecast on basically itself? or is 
there no problem with doing this?

[prompt 4]

there is another data set that I'm interested in: Employment Cost Index, but I can't figure out which 
one to use because there are thousands of different ones, like which one would be an index that includes 
all costs? and not just private only, or civilian only, and is there anything wrong with the approach I 
want to take? would it be better to take private or civilian only employment costs? because public employment 
costs don't change as much? or would it make more sense to find an index that includes all employment costs? 
and what index would that be?

[prompt 5]

okay, I'll upload both, and then let's look at how all the data sets, the previously uploaded ones, and the 
2 new ones, are correlated with initial unemployment claim filings

[prompt 6]

for the employment costs indexes, is it possible to shift the data points backward or forward in a way to see 
if they are correlated in a lagging way? like suppose costs jump, but we don't really see that for a few periods?









