The Life and Times of Chestnut + Hazel 
by Kenneth Larot Yamat, dba Chestnut + Hazel, SP

1

what is that one with the tiffany lamp 1 cent? it 
looks like it has an art of magic stamp attached. 
@PostalPleasures #PostalPleasures
I watched a few videos about stamp collecting right now.
all I need to do is make a small profit doing this. I 
had a pretty awesome collection years ago, but, I threw them 
away when I moved from Arlington, TX.

2

but there were times when the oranges changed 
into new ideas. where the lemons became sour 
experiences that you were able to taste.
Being around disillusioned and depressed people kind of 
creates. I don't know how to say it exactly. 
Their sentiments can rub off on you. Envious types should be 
avoided. Even if you have these feelings. 
It can be important that you hold them in. Or make an effort 
not to spread them.

3

these last few months have been a nightmare.
when are things not a nightmare? they are never 
not a nightmare. they are always a nightmare. I 
have so much stuff I have to deal with right now. 
and a lot of things simply aren't getting done.

4

I just threw away a belt that I had for a while. 
It was pretty fucked up and it was a pain in the 
neck to take on and off at the security checkpoint at work.
Fucking Aphids. Destroying my God damned plants. 

5

I made a payment on my student loan balance.
This was just a test payment. I wanted to see 
how this works, and it worked. it was just a 
small payment. I'm in college, so I don't really 
need to make any payments, plus my income is also 
low enough that I really don't have to make any 
payments according to my payment plan.

6

there is really too much going on in my life right 
now. Summer school. on the one hand I think that it  
is really risky to take as many classes as I plan to 
take. on the other hand. I don't know if I'll get 
another chance at this. and so. maybe I should just 
risk it.

7

I'm a little worried about 
things going as terrible as 
they went this spring semester 
of 2024. but who knows.

8

Good God. A lot of my poems are pure Garbage. Only like. 
Two. Out of the five million or so I've 
written are actually. Maybe. Even passably okay. A lot of 
these make we want to. Fucking. Glue my 
fucking eyes shut. Like this is really hopeless. and 
Silly really.

9

this really might be the last 
semester of school that I enroll 
in and attend for a while. the 
summer semester might be the last 
semester of college I enroll in
for a while. so maybe I should just 
go for it.

10

when all of these things change over 
into better times when these things go 
right and rather than things going not-well 
they all go well rather than terrible.

I don't know man. Like reading the things that I've written. I've concluded that I really am a god 
dammed frog. Like really. But honestly. I think. If we were just to record the things that people say. 
and then have them read those things later. I think that we would all sort of come out as real reptiles. 
Like really. I think everyone is a little disgusting.

11

I think of how. Tony Montana points out how hypocritical everyone is when he tells the other patrons at 
the restaurant "You need people like me so you can point your fucking finger, and say: That's the Bad 
Guy!"

when you buy new things 
and see how amazing they 
are and how enjoyable they are to enjoy 
and how amazing they are to play with 
and how fun they are to be delighted by.

15

Some of us are slime balls, but I think everyone is a fucking slime ball. Some of are open about it, and 
some of us keep it beneath the surface.

16

I feel like total garbage right now.
not feeling really happy, and somewhat
anxious.

17

I wonder what this reflection was about. about slime 
balls and all that.

18

And maybe it's keeping it beneath the surface that 
distinguishes the respectable people from the 
slime-balls and scum-bags.

19

i don't even know where to begin with this 
presentation that I have to do.

20

Example from 2017
Summary and conclusion of initiative
Or two more examples of success


I didn’t actually get much out of either of these two articles.
I’m not sure if this was a result of the content 
This opportunities article was good, or should be, that other one definitely was not enjoyable!

Or still being incubated Page 9
Figure 2 is important - insert
Table 3 important
Orient landscape figure two and table three

I might merge introduction through methods into a single slide, 
and do an example focused presentation
Unless kelly also does an example focused presentation
In which case i would merge methods into a single slide, and examples into a single slide,
And do a concepts focused presentation

21

I might merge introduction through methods into a single slide, 
and do an example focused presentation
Unless kelly also does an example focused presentation
In which case i would merge methods into a single slide, and examples into a single slide,
And do a concepts focused presentation

22

they were planted
in the gargen and 
they were planted 
in the garden.

1217
304.25
150
100
0.6666666667
456.375
405.6666667
507.0833333

change where 
the places make 
and the turnips
reside and planted

where they 
were planted

It's really hot right now.

I really can't believe how long ago this was. I'm writing this update to this post on 10/12/2022 at 04:10 PM. 
Two fucking years ago. So much has changed since then. So much has happened since then. I remember I was working 
at the cargo airport. The Amazon Air airport, and I think that I transferred out shortly after this post.

23

when the changes are made and all of the 
new things are becoming russians in the new
oblasts. they are conquering the entire world!
this is a scary time! very scary!

I took care of a few things regarding my employment with my company. 
It hasn't been 90 days yet, but it has been about 60 days. It's been 
pretty cool. I've been working more than I expected too, and that has 
been extremely beneficial for my budgeting and all that.

24

Bertoni, S. (2015, April 15). Twinkie's Miracle Comeback: The Untold, Inside Story of a $2 Billion Feast. Forbes. 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/stevenbertoni/2015/04/15/twinkie-billion-dollar-comeback-hostess-metropoulos-apollo-jhawar/?sh=159db56e7235
S&P Dow Jones Indices. (2024). S&P Homebuilders Select Industry Index. Retrieved April 9, 2024, 
from https://www.spglobal.com/spdji/en/indices/equity/sp-homebuilders-select-industry-index/#overview

Yale School of Management. (July 6, 2023.). Yale School of Management logo. Retrieved April 10, 2024, 
from https://som.yale.edu/story/2023/top-40-case-studies-2022-23

Jassy, A. (2024, April 11). CEO Andy Jassy’s 2023 Letter to Shareholders. Amazon. Retrieved 
from https://www.aboutamazon.com/news/company-news/amazon-ceo-andy-jassy-2023-letter-to-shareholders?utm_
source=amazonnewsletter&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=041124&utm_term=shareholderletter

Kolarovszki, Peter & Tengler, Jiří & Margita, Majerčáková. (2016). The New Model of Customer 
Segmentation in Postal Enterprises. Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences. 230. 10.1016/j.sbspro.
2016.09.015. Retrieved from https://www.researchgate.net/publication/308737062_The_New_Model_of_Customer_Segmentation_in_Postal_Enterprises
Gittelsohn, J. (2023, March 15). Blackstone to Stop Payments on Las Vegas Office Campus. Bloomberg Law. 
https://news.bloomberglaw.com/mergers-and-acquisitions/blackstone-writes-down-500-million-las-vegas-office-campus
Rogers, J. (2023, March 21). Blackstone Stops Making Payments on $325M Las Vegas Office Loan. GlobeSt. 
https://www.globest.com/2023/03/21/blackstone-stops-making-payments-on-325m-las-vegas-office-loan/?slreturn=20240321173235
Saab, V., Miller, K., Yamat, K. L.  (2024, April 28). 4.3. Digitalization: Advances and Challenges 
[PowerPoint slides & Oral presentation]. MIS 764, University of Nevada, Las Vegas, Las Vegas, Nevada.
Saab, V., Miller, K., & Yamat, K. L. (2024). Module Paper 1: Business Value Of IT (MIS 764). Vicky Saab & Co. Publications.
Saab, V., Miller, K., & Yamat, K. L. (2024).  Module Paper 2: IT-Business Partnership (MIS 764). Vicky Saab & Co. Publications.
Saab, V., Miller, K., & Yamat, K. L. (2024).  Module Paper 3: IT-Enabled Innovation (MIS 764). Vicky Saab & Co. Publications.
Saab, V., Miller, K., & Yamat, K. L. (2024).  Module Paper 4: Contemporary Issues in IT and Innovation (MIS 764). Vicky Saab & Co. Publications.

25

Saab, V., Miller, K., Yamat, K. L.  (2024, April 28). 4.3. Digitalization: Advances and Challenges [PowerPoint slides & Oral presentation]. 
MIS 764, University of Nevada, Las Vegas, Las Vegas, Nevada.
Saab, V., Miller, K., & Yamat, K. L. (2024). Module Paper 1: Business Value Of IT [Student Paper] 
MIS 764, University of Nevada, Las Vegas, Las Vegas, Nevada.
Saab, V., Miller, K., & Yamat, K. L. (2024).  Module Paper 2: IT-Business Partnership [Student Paper] 
MIS 764, University of Nevada, Las Vegas, Las Vegas, Nevada.
Saab, V., Miller, K., & Yamat, K. L. (2024).  Module Paper 3: IT-Enabled Innovation [Student Paper] 
MIS 764, University of Nevada, Las Vegas, Las Vegas, Nevada.
Saab, V., Miller, K., & Yamat, K. L. (2024).  Module Paper 4: Contemporary Issues in IT and Innovation [Student Paper] 
MIS 764. University of Nevada, Las Vegas, Las Vegas, Nevada.

26

there were places there 4 that all people
Paper & Forest Products
Water Utilities
Construction Materials
Chemicals
Containers & Packaging
Metals & Mining
Building Products
Food Products
Beverages

I'm getting there, but it is taking some time, and it 
will continue to take some time, but I'm sure I'll get there.

27

4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges
4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems
4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:
4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work					

Increased automation resulted in increased
Increased data collection resulted in increased privacy concerns.
Updating a few finance related things.

Sometimes I just wonder what's next. Like what the hell is next for me. 
What is next? I can't see too far into the future. 

Bored. Really fucking bored right now. Nothing to do. I could work on something, but I'm really hungry. Typing right 
now feels strange because I just clipped my nails. The buffett is so much more expensive during the weekends, and I 
don't really get anything out of the crab dinners. I don't really care too much for crap.

My work week is almost over, even 
though, really, it never ends.

28

Focused on a 
Focused on 
Page 3
Page 2
I already
want to head back home.

this was a bad idea.

Incumbents in an industry have a resource 
base that can be both an asset and a liability.

i really just want to get this dumb thing over 
with. what a nightmare. this nightmare thing.

whereas capabilities are abilities, such as construction or analysis, 
i really just want to head home right now.
that enable actors to utilize assets to produce and offer products or services
embedded in the firm’s alliance network

tend to be

29

Summary
Incumbent firms have an existing resource base that can be both an asset and a liability. 
New entrants to a market have disrupted incumbents while having few if any resources at play.
Objective
The purpose of this paper is to create a framework for identifying an incumbent firm’s resources and 
how to utilize those resources for identifying and capitalizing on opportunities for innovation.

Discussion

Sequential Ambidexterity happens over time

Structural Ambidexterity happens in individual business units

Contextual Ambidexterity happens at an individual employee level

Amdi
The ability of a firm to adapt and pivot to address new threats and capitalize on new opportunities.
Ambidexterity
Ambidexterity
Page 3-4
Discussion:

30

Discussion

Sequential Ambidexterity happens over time
	A firm will focus on incremental innovation or radical innovation during one period of time 
		May switch focus to radical innovation over incremental innovation during a different period of time.

	Traditional banks have kept up technologically with fintech companies in some areas
		Peer-to-peer payments
		Mobile applications
		Mobile wallets
		
but have been more incremental or even glacial in others
		Peer-to-peer lending
		Crowdfunding
		Blockchain
		
Structural Ambidexterity happens in individual business units
	Historical: 		AT&T’s Bell Labs, Xerox’s Xerox PARC, Lockheed’s Skunk Works
	Contemporary:	Amazon’s Zoox, Google’s DeepMind, Apple’s Mira Labs, DowDuPont’s Corteva

Contextual Ambidexterity happens at an individual employee level
	Having an innovation culture

Implications

Amazon (incumbent) & Shopify (entrant)
PayPal (incumbent) & CashApp (entrant)
E-Trade (incumbent) & Robinhood (entrant)
Synchrony (incumbent) & Klarna (entrant)

31

Allow m to cook all of the 
chickens that you were probably
saving for breakfast!
Examples from popular culture
Increased data collection
Increased automation
Increased use of social media
Have an interdisciplinary and cross-industry perspective
Identification of  
Digital 

 Ethical Dilemmas Corollaries 
Implications
Contextual Ambidexterity happens at an individual employee level
	Having an innovation culture
	Empowering employees to innovate solutions

 resulting in a network whose value is greater than the s
doing that in the first place
Page 15
Amazon (incumbent) & Shopify (entrant)
Ebay (incumbent) & Etsy (entrant)
PayPal (incumbent) & Cash App (entrant)
E-Trade (incumbent) & Robinhood (entrant)
Synchrony (incumbent) & Klarna (entrant)
Adobe (incumbent) & Figma (entrant)
An assumption generally held to be true might be
Innovation Opportunity Conversion
corollaries with that era’s 
wealth & income
 innovation
 become better at a rate that seems radical
speed faster at a speed that seems 
it might make sense to 

so radically different from existing prod  that are
Since i
Some r
Aaccelerated
Incumbent firms have an existing resource base that can be both an asset and a liability. 
New entrants to a market have disrupted incumbents while having few if any resources at play.
The purpose of this paper is to create a framework for identifying an incumbent firm’s resources 
and how to utilize those resources for identifying and capitalizing on opportunities for innovation.
result in
corresponding
dissimilar from
A lack of 
Incumbents in an industry have a resource base that can be both an asset and a liability.
Resource based view 

32

The purpose of this paper is to create
 development  among similar opportunities
Question # 3
are
How should an 
these 1 are 
a few of 2 my favorite
how those resources can be utilized for identifying innovation opportunities
 and 
 Incumbent firms have an existing resource base that can be both an asset, and a liability.

The purpose of this paper is to create a framework for identifying an incumbent firm’s resources, 
and how to utilize those resources for identifying and capitalizing on opportunities for innovation
Zoom 
the creation of 
 and 
 of

  such as
Messed around on OK Cupid for a little while. Just liking profiles. I didn't send out any messages.
Good lord. There is something that. I think is wrong. And I have to look into it. Shit. I would 
have to open up everything. Nightmare. Total nightmare. Well. I don't know.
Good Lord. I wouldn't want to go through all of these. I can't even believe this.

I'm going to change the title of the series from

Letters from Sanford Street
to 
Sanford Street.
The issue is when I'm posting to my blog from my phone. 

33

They have a pretty good deal for a thigh and a drumstick. 
the biscuits are probably the best biscuits.
I had the custard filled creme brulee donut.
 with custard. I had the custard filled creme brulee donut with custard.
Article 3 
Article 4 
reduced
I might even just remove the number sign altogether. 
led 
Like. Switching keyboards is also a pain in the neck
so I might as well eliminate that hassle as well.

The issue that I was facing earlier was some confusion about 
how much I owe on my car loan. For some reason there is either 
an issue, or I'm mis-remembering something here. I requested a 
copy of the original finance agreement. I have a copy here. 
Somewhere. At least I think so.
s  to keep up or get ahead
But when I thought about it later, I came to the conclusion that this 
looks about right, but I'll keep tabs and follow up with the finance 
company anyway, just to make sure.

Cereal and Turkeys
There's something weird. Like. For 
some reason. It seemed like he had memory issues.

34

when the various things 
that change all things
 that bring about more things.
 automated manufacturing software

35

thinka about how so many place can 
change into new chickens where the 
roosters lay eggs and the turkies 
make new babies with the swans where.
all of them make eggs for eating by 
humans.

Digitalization: Advances and Challenges
This module provides details on the opportunities and difficulties that will be faced as 
organizations and entities move forward in their path towards digitalization. The first 
article, Digital Innovation: Review and Novel Perspective (Hund et. al. 2021) is a meta 
analysis of the literature of digitalization across different disciplines (Saab et. al. April 28th 2024) 
such as economics, marketing, entrepreneurship, human resources, and other business fields. It provides 

36

The articles on the advances and challenges of digitalization 
provide keen insights on how digitalization affects different 
organizations, different business types, how different approaches 
towards digitalization provide their own opportunities and advantages, 
as well as their own challenges; how an organization can change its 
whole identity during the digitalization process, to how an organization 
can limit the transformation to key processes while maintaining its 

organizational identity, and how incumbents in a competitive environment, 
the proverbial elephants in the room, can maintain their innovative 
composure in a field full of entrepreneurial mice (Sabb et. al 2024). We 
see over and over throughout these articles that there really isn’t a 
one-size-fits-all approach, and there are no one-size-fits-all solutions 
to any given problem. Different organizations are going to face different 
challenges as they pursue different approaches to the innovation game. Some

challenges might be in marketing, some challenges might be administrative, 
other challenges might be in leveraging resources and an eye for detail is 
important in knowing which approach is appropriate for any given circumstance.

37

into the main April 21st 2024
draft back into the newest draft
changes made 1 to the 
initial draft were changed
back

Spring Time in
south dakota.

I think I'm only going to stay
there for one day or one night 
or whatever. and

they I'll head back home.

back in the day April 22nd 2024
when the people saw what they
how can you 1 see what these 
were and where they first started

beaver utah
i've been here before 
back. last year in august 
or something.

about eight months ago
I took a road trip to salt lake 
city and came back home in 
the same day. 
or
not exactly 
but I came through beaver

38

wanted they saw only 2 what 
they needed and how they could

I am in Eagle Colorado.
I was going to stop and book 
a hotel room in Grand Junction, but 
it was before their check-in time, so I 
figured that I would continue driving until 3 PM, 
and get a hotel where-ever I ended up.

there needs to be 3 more 
and many more newer ideas.
this is the general idea:

39

there was 
a picture here of some cool stuff
like a road trip that I was working on. 
Source: Google Maps. (April 2024). Screenshot of
Google Maps [Screenshot]. Retrieved from
https://www.google.com/maps

but after Sioux falls, I really don't know what I'll do next.
I decided against taking summer school, and I'll either 
move my classes to the Fall Semester, or take different 
classes.

So I can basically do whatever I want 
until the end of August.

40

Let me think: I am already sick of this road trip.
Sioux Falls, SD would be another 12 hours. I 
still want to do it, but I'm also sick of it. Now that
I don't have to worry about summer school it's more
doable. 

spring time and the 
tornadoes that happened 
on this date or after April 23rd 2024

41

I have really been wearing the same damn clothes.
for. you know. three damn days.
Source: Google Maps. (April 2024).
Screenshot of Google Maps [Screenshot].
Retrieved from https://www.google.com/maps

42

and I already kind of want to go home. but even this 
new idea is. it's still going to take forever. I'm honestly really.
done with this whole thing.

43

this is turning out to be really annoying.
I am already tired of this, but who knows.
five minutes from know it might feel like 
this was the highlight of the last century.

44

This is another idea
Source:
Google Maps. (April 2024). Screenshot of Google
Maps [Screenshot]. Retrieved from https://www.google.com/maps
another picture here naand and there were 
a bunch of stuff that was here
but I really kind of just want to head 
back home.

45

This second one is similar to the other one.
Source: Google Maps. (April 2024). Screenshot of Google Maps
[Screenshot]. Retrieved from https://www.google.com/maps

46

The US Copyright office is giving me more trouble than usual.
I'll eventually register this post with the US Copyright office, but 
I wonder if they will say something like: well kenneth dba chestnut + hazel
we have determined that you did not actually make it all the way
to Sioux Falls, South Dakota, therefore we cannot register 
this under the title The Sioux Falls Expedition.

47

so maybe I should change the title, now.
to [The Failed Sioux Falls, South Dakota Expedition]

48

they gave me a hard time about uploading a .txt
file, but I've always registered my work in a .txt
format because I'm only registering a claim 
for the text of the published post. I had to re-upload
the registration, or the item I'm submitting 
for registration as a .pdf

49

I still have my group presentation to finish.
and the group paper 
and the term project which I decided to 
do individually, and this is a potential nightmare. I
dropped my summer courses figuring that I can
resume this nightmare called 
graduate school during the Fall.

50

a few outlines of the structural frameworks of how digital innovation is conceptualized, how strategies 
for digital innovation can be managed by people in leadership and management positions, and how different 
tensions and paradoxes can be alleviated (Saab et. al April 28th 2024). 
The second article Unpacking the Difference Between Digital Transformation and IT Enabled Organizational 
Transformation (Wessel et. al 2021) makes a distinction between two transformative process that can take 
place within an organization as it takes steps towards digitizing it’s business strategies and business 
practices, providing two cases studies illustrating an example of digital transformation, or DT, which 
changes the very identity of what a organization is and what the organization does, and IT Enabled 
Organizational Transformation, or ITOT, which transforms how an organization handles its business 

practices and procedures without changing its fundamental identity (Saab et. al April 28th 2024). An 
example of DT used in the paper was a hardware and machinery company that pivoted toward becoming a 
provider of manufacturing automation software, and the example provided for an example of ITOT was a 
hospital that transitioned from keeping paper patient records to keeping digital patient records (Saab et. al. April 28th 2024). 
The article Digital opportunities for incumbents – A resource-centric perspective (Oberländer et. al 2021) 
creates two conceptual frameworks, a Digital Innovation Opportunity Taxonomy, as well as a system of Stylized 
Facts that simplifies how an incumbent firm can utilize its resources for capitalizing on opportunities for 
digital innovation, although it may seem natural to think that an incumbent institution would have an inherent 
advantage, it’s actually challenging for incumbents to avoid disruption from new entrants in a marketplace 
because new entrants are often more nimble, and a lack of resources and existing infrastructure can provide 
agility to new entrants (Saab et. al April 28th 2024). This is why the framework provided in this paper is 
so useful and critical for incumbents to leverage. 

Digitization as an ethical challenge (Capurro 2016) is an opinion piece and provides counter arguments to 
the prevailing idea that digital technological innovation is the be all and end all of what progress really 
is, it goes into details of some of the ethical shortcomings of the prevailing outlook of innovation, and how we 
can moderate many of the negative aspects that are brought about by digitalization (Sabb et. al. April 28th 2024). 
Toward a better digital future: Balancing the utopic and dystopic ramifications of digitalization 
(Chatterjee & Sarker 2024) provides an excellent companion piece to Capurro’s article, while Capurro 
describes many of the horrors of the digital age, and how things have gone terribly wrong in so many 
ways during the past few decades, Chatterjee & Sarker provide a moderating viewpoint, and a plethora of 
moderating approaches to the ethical challenges that Capurro brings up such as increasing representation 
and inclusion of excluded groups when adjusting biased algorithms, or obtaining better levels of informed 
consent when users apply for various digital platforms.

51

The Spring 2024 semester is almost over. 
It has been more or less
a total disaster. I dropped all 

of my Summer 2024 courses.
and I haven't signed up for any Fall 2024 semester
courses just yet. I'm 
going to wait a while. I have to be 

more careful about
what courses I sign up for because 
these mistakes. 

Signing up for classes that 
don't really work for me
are. These mistakes are expensive.

I really just want to get this Spring 2024 semester 
over with. I have a few. I have one more project 
that I have to get done with MIS 764. for MIS 768
I stopped participating several months ago.

4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review
Framework for conceptualizing digital innovation framework
Economics strategy and marketing 
Digital object, digital technology has different uses and 
meanings depending on the social circles where it is being 
used. This results in products boundaries are fluid, and 
determined by social actors

52

The Spring 2024 semester is almost over. 
It has been more or less
a total disaster. I dropped all 

of my Summer 2024 courses.
and I haven't signed up for any Fall 2024 semester
courses just yet. I'm 
going to wait a while. I have to be 

more careful about
what courses I sign up for because 
these mistakes. 

Signing up for classes that 
don't really work for me
are. These mistakes are expensive. I have

one final things that I need to complete
for the Spring 2024 semester.
A term project that I think is a longer
project. It was originally 
a Group Project, 

but I had a kind of falling out 
with my group members.

Socio-Technical phenomenon.
Agency is distributed
Heterogeneous groups
Across industries
Across disciplines

53

The Spring 2024 semester is almost over. 
It has been more or less
a total disaster. I dropped all 

of my Summer 2024 courses.
and I haven't signed up for any Fall 2024 semester
courses just yet. I'm 
going to wait a while. I have to be 

more careful about
what courses I sign up for because 
these mistakes. 

Signing up for classes that 
don't really work for me
are. These mistakes are expensive. I have

one final things that I need to complete
for the Spring 2024 semester.
A term project that I think is a longer
project. It was originally 
a Group Project, 

but I had a kind of falling out 
with my group members.

4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference
4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents

Presumers:		consumers and producers at the same time, where users of a product both consume the product, 
					and produce the product - Innovation partners and consumers. They have a multi-faceted role in 
					the digital ecosystem.

54

Summer school is on my mind again, but I'm pretty
sure I've already made up my mind about all of that.
It isn't really clear to me what I would do if I went 
back on the decision not to take summer school. It

Really just makes a whole lot more sense to me to 
not be taking summer school this summer. The 
shorter time line, and a number of other potential  
issues.

Summer school is on my mind again, but I'm pretty
sure I've already made up my mind about all of that.
It isn't really clear to me what I would do if I went 
back on the decision not to take summer school. It

Really just makes a whole lot more sense to me to 
not be taking summer school this summer. The 
shorter time line, and a number of other potential  
issues. it just really doesn't make sense to me to 
take the risk.


Concerns:				A digital artifact doesn’t give a reason for any given decision
                     This might be true, but digital artifacts are also programmed, 
                     so, it might not give a reason, but the reason can be traced back 
                     to the programming of the digital artifact.

55

I have a few road trip 
ideas. I have to wait a while 
before doing this. but I also can't really wait too long, 
because I can't really do it during the winter.

There isn't really anything done
as far as my final term group project 
for MIS 764. and it's due in a few days. I
don't 

really have anything done for it, and 
it's due soon. nightmare.

Digital Technologies - a more general 
term for information technology

ERBV:					Extended Resource based view - enterprises that share 
                  resources. As partners, or through supplier 
					   and customer relationships - Resource access 
                  over ownership - RBV - Resource Based View - 
					   extended into the customer context framework

56

I have a few road trip 
ideas. I have to wait a while 
before doing this. but I also can't really wait too long, 
because I can't really do it during the winter.

There isn't really anything done
as far as my final term group project 
for MIS 764. and it's due in a few days. I
don't 

really have anything done for it, and 
it's due soon. nightmare.

There were a few disappointing
things about my last road trip.
One, I didn't make it to Sioux Falls
South Dakota, and the second thing
is that I didn't see a single new state.

Opportunity Conversion:	Starts with 
opportunity Identification

I have a few road trip 
ideas. I have to wait a while 
before doing this. but I also can't really wait too long, 
because I can't really do it during the winter.

There isn't really anything done
as far as my final term group project 
for MIS 764. and it's due in a few days. I
don't 

really have anything done for it, and 
it's due soon. nightmare.

There were a few disappointing
things about my last road trip.
One, I didn't make it to Sioux Falls
South Dakota, and the second thing
is that I didn't see a single new state.

Platform technologies: 	Conducts business without hardly any resources involved - netflix uber Airbnb
					         This relates to that other article that mentioned that most disruptions are usually business 
						      model disruptions, rather than technology related.

Incumbents:			Have a resource advantage but this advantage is 
                  also often considered a liability because existing 
                  resources are often considered old.

57

(4/28) Module 4 										               Group Paper

4.1.0 The Landscape of Emerging Technologies				      Vicky
	4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems		   Vicky
	4.1.2 Editorial Emergent Tech and Organizing			      Vicky
	4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:						            Vicky
	4.1.4 Quantum Computing and Information Systems		      Vicky
	
4.2.0 The Changing Nature of Work						         Kelly
	4.2.1 Editorial Future of Work Organizations Society		Kelly
	4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work			      Kelly
	4.2.3 Mental Health and Information Technology		      Kelly
	4.2.4 Waging war from remote cubicles				         Kelly

(4/25) 4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges 			Kenneth			Group Presentation
	4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 					            Kenneth			Vicky
	4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 					            Kenneth			Kelly
	4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 			      Kenneth			Kenneth
	4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 				      Kenneth			Kenneth

I stopped smoking a while ago,
and then I threw away all of my 
smoking related stuff.
and then I started smoking again.
and then I stopped and returned to 
vaping.

   Pursue evolutionary and revolutionary 
   change - exploratory 
   and exploitative innovation -  
	incremental and major innovations

The nonlinear influence of harmonious information 
technology affordance on organisational innovation

58

chickens can produce eggs , but you may
want to ask youself if you can disqingish 
between eggs, and lemons. is your 
eyesignt that sharp? or not? ask youself!

McKinsey & Company. (2023, January 19). What is generative AI? McKinsey & 
	Company. https://www.mckinsey.com/featured-insights/mckinsey-explainers
	/what-is-generative-ai

References 

59

Introduction

Introduce HITA, Harmonious Information Technology Affordances
Current Measurement Techniques

Find paper where HITA is first Introduced 

Find paper where HITA or Organizational HITA is measured.
	Probably the U-shaped non-liner paper in the title
	Explain measurement techniques used in paper
Develop an alternative way to measure HITA using a companies publicly available financial statements

Clean up the references list

Gittelsohn, J. (2023, March 15). Blackstone to Stop Payments on Las Vegas Office 
Campus. Bloomberg Law. https://news.bloomberglaw.com/mergers-and-acquisitions/
blackstone-writes-down-500-million-las-vegas-office-campus

60

I'm working on the 
term paper for MIS 764 
it is due tomorrow as midnight. 
and although an extension 
is or was mentioned. I really 
need to get this completed.

PitchBook Data, Inc. (2024). Perplexity AI, Inc [Company profile]. Retrieved from 
PitchBook Database https://pitchbook.com/profiles/company/517947-04

I'm willing to admit 
that most of the problems that 
i'm facing are problems that

Mok, A. (2024, March 11). CEO says he tried to hire an AI researcher from Meta and 
was told to 'come back to me when you have 10,000 H100 GPUs'. Insider Today. 
https://www.businessinsider.com/recruiting-ai-talent-ruthless-right-now-ai-ceo-20
24-3#

61

Commercial mortgages
consistently leveraged 
and constantly.

changes are made to the 
places that there were.

United States Securities and Exchange Commission. (2024, April 11). Form 8-K: Current 
report [PDF file]. Retrieved from https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1018724/
000110465924045915/tm246113d2_8k.htm

Hertz Global Holdings, Incorporated. (2024). Form 10-K Annual Report. U.S. Securities
	and Exchange Commission. https://www.sec.gov/ix?doc=/Archives/edgar/data/
	47129/000165785324000022/htz-20231231.htm

they don't need 
as much space and 
there are places that 
people don't need to be.

62 

do you like 
farms and have you plained

farm ville in as many times 
as you have been looking at 
mobile games are very fun to 
play.

Veritasium [Veritasium]. (2022, April 22). The man who accidentally killed the most 
	people in history [Video]. YouTube. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=
Fc0u2O2GvVU

63

changes
made to the ut most best place and 
can they see what they were and how 
they needed more 
of them.
this is a collage of where 
the ideas are new 

Hu, H., & Liu, Y. (2023). Digital-free tourism intention: The effects of message 
concreteness and intervention. Tourism Analysis, 28(3), 505-510. 
doi:https://doi.org/10.3727/108354223X16758863498791

64

Frustrated right now.
this is such a tight 
well it's not a tight deadline.
it's a tight time frame, but 
the deadline wasn't tight.

Chapman, M., & The Associated Press. (2024, March 28). Home Depot’s largest acquisition 
ever is an $18.25 billion bet on the housing market’s severe shortage of new homes. 
Fortune. Retrieved from https://fortune.com/2024/03/28/home-depot-acquisition-srs-distribution
-18-25-billion-housing-market/

65

when the places
can be when they change
how they make new things 
and what they do and 
how they can be or not.
Saab, V., Miller, K., & Yamat, K. L. (2024). 
Module Paper 1: Business Value Of IT (MIS 
764). Vicky Saab & Co. Publications.

Saab, V., Miller, K., & Yamat, K. L. (2024).  
Module Paper 2: IT-Business Partnership (MIS 
764). Vicky Saab & Co. Publications.

66

there would be 
changes that were made 
to the lemonade
that were eaten 
and squeezed.

Veritasium. (2024, February 8). Why It Was 
Almost Impossible to Make the Blue LED 
[Video]. YouTube. 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UC2joTpQGY0

they were made 
to be amazing and they 
changed how they were.

but are there things that you've seen 
when you've changed things that were not good.

67

I think that Lina Khan's FTC should investigate Jollibee's 
Monopolistic control of the Filipino Fried Chicken Industrial 
Complex! It's completely anti-competitive that only a single, 
foreigner-owned, international corporation controls the Filipino 
Fried Chicken Industrial Complex! It's UN-AMERICAN! and if Jollibee 
thinks that they are going to buy The Visayas Filipino Chicken 
Industrial Franchise Complex  Conglomerate of Mindanao, it's not 
going to happen! Lina Khan will block it! #LinaKhan #FTC. 
#FederalTradeCommission #JolibeeMonopoly #Chicken

I think that Lina Khan's FTC should investigate Jollibee's 
Monopolistic control of the Filipino Fried Chicken Industrial 
Complex! It's completely anti-competitive that only a single, 
foreigner-owned, international corporation controls the Filipino 
Fried Chicken Industrial Complex! It's UN-AMERICAN! and if Jollibee 
thinks that they are going to buy The Pampagana Filipino Chicken 
Industrial Franchise Complex  Conglomerate of Mindanao, it's not 
going to happen! Lina Khan will block it! #LinaKhan #FTC. 
#FederalTradeCommission #JolibeeMonopoly #Chicken

@KennethLarotYamat
8 minutes ago (edited)
I think the Lina Khan's FTC should investigate Jollibee's 
Monopolistic control of the Filipino Fried Chicken Industrial 
Complex! It's completely anti-competitive that only a single, 
foreigner-owned, international corporation controls the Filipino 
Fried Chicken Industrial Complex! It's UN-AMERICAN! and if Jollibee 
thinks they they are going to buy The Pampagana Filipino Chicken 
Franchine Conglomerate of Mindanao, it's not going to happen! Lina 
Khan will block it! #LinaKhan #FTC. #FederalTradeCommission #JolibeeMonopoly

changes that 
were made 
into new lemonade.

Callaway, E. (2024, March 8). Could AI-designed proteins be weaponized? Scientists 
lay out safety guidelines. Nature. https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-
024-00699-0?utm_source=Live+Audience&utm_campaign=bddc4c8b69-briefing-dy-
20240311&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_b27a691814-bddc4c8b69-51990316

guess how much it 
would cost to be 
that much that there 
were more than they were.

Veritasium. (2024, February 27). The Trillion 
Dollar 
Equation [Video]. YouTube. 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lyj5aK3FmWo

68

I think that Lina Khan's FTC should investigate Jollibee's 
Monopolistic control of the Filipino Fried Chicken 
Industrial Complex! It's completely anti-competitive 
that only a single, foreigner-owned, international 
corporation controls basically the whole entire 
Filipino Fried Chicken Industrial Complex! It's UN-AMERICAN! 
and if Jollibee thinks that they are going to buy The Visayas 
Filipino Chicken Industrial Franchise Complex  Conglomerate 
of Mindanao, it's not going to happen! Lina Khan will block it! 
#LinaKhan #FTC. #FederalTradeCommission #JolibeeMonopoly #Chicken

I think that Lina Khan's FTC should investigate Jollibee's Monopolistic 
control of the Filipino Fried Chicken Industrial Complex! It's completely 
anti-competitive that only a single, foreigner-owned, international corporation 
controls basically the whole entire Filipino Fried Chicken Industrial Complex! 
It's UN-AMERICAN! and if Jollibee thinks that they are going to buy The Visayas 
Filipino Chicken Industrial Franchise Complex  Conglomerate of Mindanao, it's 
not going to happen! Lina Khan will block it! #LinaKhan #FTC. 
#FederalTradeCommission #JolibeeMonopoly #Chicken

how can you tell what 
there are and how they 
see what they need to 
how they can be and what.

changes
(5/5) Term Project
Topic: 
turn-arounds and pivots: leveraging 
organizational courage for high-risk innovation as an
alternative to the conventional approach of 
distressed asset sales and mass-layoffs

Implementation:
season's change changes
are pretty good or maybe 
they are amazing.

69

HITA Applications for Mergers & Acquisitions, Portfolio Management, and Equity Index Development
Create an equity index of publicly traded companies based on hita; a list of companies will be compiled and 
each company will be assigned a HITA level which will inform the M&A approach. Since the HITA impact on 
innovation is quadratic, we would use the absolute value of a company’s assigned HITA to rank companies within this index.

We can call it the 

Chatterjee 500 HITA Equity Index, 
but we might not be able to use the number 500, so it can actually be any number.

We might not be able to use numbers like

500 - S&P 500, the s&p
30 - Dow 30, dow jones industrial average, the dow
3000 - Russell 3000
5000 - WIlshire 5000
100 - NASDAQ 100, the nasdaq

Well, maybe not because there is a NASDAQ 100 and an S&P 100. So we might be able to use 500.
Architecture:
Create a model similar to the Zaibatsu of the Meiji Restoration, but rather than have a bank as the central actor, 
with credit as the force that ties the different businesses together, we would have a model where a university is 
the central actor, and innovation is the force that ties the businesses together, or creates inter-dependencies.

	Chatterjee 36 HITA Equity Index
	Chatterjee M&A Laboratories, INC
		Chatterjee Holdings Block A, Corp
			Target Companies 1-12
		Chatterjee Holdings Block B, Corp
			Target Companies 13-24
		Chatterjee Holdings Block C, Corp
			Target Companies 25-36
	Yong Li Venture Capital Laboratories, LP
		If a company cannot be acquired, then this organization would create new companies that would stand in for the 
			company that could not be acquired.
		For Example: suppose target company 17 is a bottling company, but for one reason or another it cannot be acquired, then
			We would create a bottling company through Yong Li VC Partners, LP from UNLV Student Business Proposal 232 
			and then Chatterjee Holdings Block B, Corp would Acquire that company as an alternative.
	Han-fen Hu High-frequency Trading Laboratories, LP
		Suppose target company 29 has less than ideal trading characteristics, the Han-fen Hu High-frequency Trading 
			Laboratories, LP would increase volume and narrow bid-ask spreads for the equities of the target company using 
			as few shares as possible. 
		The corresponding Equity derivatives could be targeted 
			after the underlying equities have been stabilized. 
		May need to acquire market-Maker designation
	Lisa R. Davis Fixed-Asset Trust Laboratories, INC
		I imagine this being structured as a REIT, 
			with a DR Horton or Greystone Lennar component as a subsidiary
				Would experiment with post-frame, modular, pre-fabricated, and additive construction techniques 
		Target Companies would relocate their headquarters to one of the various cities in Clark County.

intro/motivation: 
●	Exploratory innovation as a key turn-around / pivot strategy
●	Affordance level reappropriation of existing IP catalog as an ancillary strategy
Lit reviews
●	Case studies of failed companies
●	Case studies of notable turn-arounds & pivots
○	Recent: Twinkie turn-around (2013) by Sol Invictus 
■	Organizational Architecture Innovations
■	Supply chain and distribution innovations
■	Product chemistry innovations
○	Recent: Apple turn-around (1997)
○	Recent: Nike Pivot (2017)
○	Recent: Amazon Pivot (2016)
○	Multiple Pivots at various inflection points: Disney								
○	Historical: Wipro Pivot
○	Historical: Nintendo Pivot
○	Historical: American Express Pivot
○	Failed Pivot: JC Penney Ron Johnson (2011)
○	Failed turn-around: JC Penney Bill Ackman (2013)
●	Examples of possible turn-arounds
theory/conceptualization 
●	A company turn-around / pivot project is similar to a rehabilitation & renovation (fixer-upper) project in real estate
If we want to do last part:
●	We are co-owners of the Vicky Saab & Co. Special Purpose Acquisition Corporation. We will look at companies that we can buy and turn around. Smallest companies on the Russell 3000, for example: Travel + Leisure Co. (TNL) or Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Co. (HMHC) and create a VR Headset travel package, that could also be reappropriated in various additional ways: licensed to schools as a geography and history learning product, or a MMORPG travel and second-life kind of VR Game.


I'm working on my final paper or final term 
project for MIS 764. I really need to get this 
done. something like today.

Digital Information related to or precursor of Digital transformation

Transformation of the old while transitioning, incumbents, applies to incumbents

Existing infrastructure is considered old, and a liability

Incumbents have a resource advantage over new entrants, but their existing infrastructure can 
	be considered old, and as a result, a liability.

Information Systems Journal - 2020 - Chatterjee - The nonlinear influence of harmonious information technology affordance 		

4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge

	Terminology:			How is digitalization - and digitization different?
	Concepts:				Digital ethics as a concept is somewhat new.
						Ethics and morality - Ethics is the problematization of morality. Michel foucault. 
						Digital ethics is related or based upon information and communication ethics.
						The human need for recognition - social media gives rise to narcissism, voyeurism exhibitionism, 
but also a means to express oneself authentically


There was this issue where there were some kind of communication 
issues. Like for some reason everything I said was misinterpreted. How. How 
do I explain this? For some reason. I was.

I was talking about some company and I seemed to be well informed 
about what they do. And. I don't think I really was.

I seemed informed about the company enough that a guy who was 
overhearing me speak about it assumed. Or. He seemed to 
draw the conclusion that I worked there. It's a company related 
to the company I work for. But. It's not directly related in any way.

I had to clarify that I wasn't involved in any way.

There was something else too. I don't know. For some reason. Every question that I asked, he seemed to give me an answer unrelated to what I was asking. It was the strangest thing ever. Strangest.

You have the best butt I have ever seen.
Well. not quite. but it is. It is a good butt.

So. I scraped my blog for a few more poems to put together for a collection, and some of these are shitty. Well. Actually. A whole Hell of a Lot of them are Shitty. A shit ton a whole hell of a lot of them are. Shitty. Really shitty. When I read them I'm really put off by whatever state of mind I was in when I wrote them. Strange stuff. I wonder if I will ever come around to re-reading the things I write here. Or if I will forever be in this state of banging on the keys typing up everything. Or at least. Nearly everything I think as soon as it comes out of my brain. What? What do you think?

Feeling the need for something fun or interesting to enter my life. Some kind of change. Get started on something. Finish something. I haven't been working on my set of poems that I want to copyright as unpublished. I may have 6 or 7. I need 10 total.

What was I thinking? Well. Fuck. Using punctuation marks. What a pain. Slowly. Nothing I write will make any sense at all.

what i was thinking was that i want to watch a movie. but the last time i went i was disappointed and. honestly. somewhat offended by what i watched.

there were a few features that i turned off on my phone keyboard. i really think that the capitalization of letters is somewhat distracting.

i changed other features too. fucking annoying.
stupid. stupid. stupid.

im changing the series title to place the 
entry number at the beginning. rather than at the end of the title.
the hell. life is a real nightmare isnt it. 

i dont think that i would have gotten out of psychiatric care unless i left Missouri. even if i left Cameron and relocated to kansas city. this move to texas was probably the only way.

other than work. there wasnt really anything to keep me in cameron. there really wasnt. i tried to make friends there. but. for one reason or another those efforts really didnt amount to much. it's possible to be on friendly terms with people at work. but unless there are outings outside of work it's not really a friendship. it's just being polite or whatever.

there might only be a short period of time in a person's life when they have opportunities to make friends. after college. i think. i only made 1 friend.

this requires a lot of thought. i should start figuring out the school situation. it's hard to make long term plans when short term circumstances are up in the air. but maybe nothing is really ever stable. maybe there never really is the perfect time for anything.

i honestly feel like im too 
fucking old to be going to 
college and looking for some other line of work.

what the hell do i do?

im not going back to Missouri. im not going back to California or Nevada. so i am kind of stuck in texas for the forseeable future.

i dont hate texas. i just. i have to anticipate a time when things aren't going well and i have to start over somewhere else. things might not happen for me here. they might not happen for me anywhere.

but what does it mean for things to be happening for me. what does that mean. how do i know im doing well or not doing well.

so there is a follow-up message from my bank stating that i should check the mailing address for the bill in question when setting up bill-pay, and that they would need 5 additional days to send the payment. i did check the address, and there was one address on my statement, and other listed by my issuing bank. in other words. my credit card had an address listed, and my account. never mind, anyway. i did check the address on my statement, and there was a discrepancy that i noticed. but at the time, i figured my bank was right anyway. well. i don't know. i'm sure it will be fine.

the workday is nearly over. i got a message from my bank saying a payment couldn't be sent electronically. and that the payee would be sent a paper check. this concerns me because its from one bank to another. i have to look into it again when i get home.

nothing. life. not unhappy or anything.

on the way into work there was road construction going on and it took a little while longer to get to work than usual.

i slept most of the day. like most of it really. i did get a call from the kansas city area. but i didn't answer the phone. i doubt it was <text deleted> but id hate to think i missed a call from her.

in the gutter. out of the gutter. get out of the gutter. it's a slow crawl. a slow crawl out of any hole. patience.

i kind of want to call the jewelry store and see if <text deleted> ever sent the items back. maybe i could get a refund.

I put in 1 limit order today on my portfolio, and it was not executed. I have a whole bunch outstanding, and they aren't getting executed. I'm not sure how badly I would want them to be executed, considering that many would entail substantial market drops, and actually, when my super low limit orders are executed, it causes me to worry because I know I put them in super low.

I keep getting notices for job offers, and I do need to find a second job eventually. So. I should actually be fine working full-time, or slightly over full-time at my job at the airport.

Define biscuit? 
Well, here is. the idea. Well.

I'm very tired. I don't have a reason
for being tired. I just am.

I went to Jack in the Box and
had 10 tacos. I haven't done that
in a while, but I did it today, and
maybe 2 days ago.

There are a few things. There
are a few places that I haven't gone
to in a while. One is the Pizza
Buffet, and the other is the Chinese
buffet, I thought about going to
either one of them today, but then
decided not to do either one.

There was actually someone at 
the buffet that was kind of nice to
me, and I gave her my phone number,
but she hasn't called.

I'm very tired. I don't have a reason
for being tired. I just am.

I went to Jack in the Box and
had 10 tacos. I haven't done that
in a while, but I did it today, and
maybe 2 days ago.

There are a few things. There
are a few places that I haven't gone
to in a while. One is the Pizza
Buffet, and the other is the Chinese
buffet, I thought about going to
either one of them today, but then
decided not to do either one.

There was actually someone at 
the buffet that was kind of nice to
me, and I gave her my phone number,
but she hasn't called.

...

89

I might not be able to do the additional copyright crap this week. maybe not next week either. Stupid. well. i already prepared 2 small transfers to my brokerage accounts. so i guess i made that decision. i decided to invest my money in stocks rather than in copyrights.

i don't have much to say. the work day is almost over. i slept and stayed up yesterday in 4 hour blocks. i have to check my budget. but i may be able to copyright something. this kind of takes away from what i can invest in the stock market. but i could think of this as a different kind of investment. i haven't seen the girl who i told this Copyright stuff to in a few days.

...

90 

I want to get this whole thing with 
copyrights done before I do anything 
else in terms of personal projects.

I don't know. I really fucking don't.

I put in another limit order. I have a whole hell of a lot of them outstanding. This latest one has a limit price that could only be executed if the ETF drops 10 percent. I'm not sure that something like that would happen. I want to say that one issue with buying the dip, like i did in February. is that if you put in the order as a market order, you may end up getting the order fulfilled, but then the security may continue to drop for the rest of the trading day, and this is something that can be extremely frustrating.

I transferred additional funds to my Robinhood account.

so i was going to go on a date today, but the woman who suggested it never got back to me. or maybe it was me who suggested going out. anyway, we didn't end up going out. she suggested going out some time after 4 pm, but i got off work at 12 pm, got home at 1 pm, and i was passed out until around 6 pm. no date for me. well. maybe she came across a better option or something. who knows.

i'm back home and i'm tired.
i don't even know.

boring shit. i burned my bottom lip
on mozzarella sticks the other day.
i might have a date later today. or.
i should have a date later today. an 
excessive amount of ash covers my 
dashboard.

in the back of my mind the whole idea of spending money getting my copyrights filed rather than investing that money bothers me. anything that can be earned from these copyrights is totally speculative. even more so than many of the investments that im making.

i was only able to put aside 50 bucks this week for investing. i was paid a bunch of dividends too. and i invested all of those dividends.

there are occasionally notices that come through my mailbox regarding 2nd jobs that could work for me. 1 is in haslet. but something in the mid cities area could potentially work.

...

91 

I got another one of those marketing emails suggesting that I create some kind of tour. Really, though, every time I try this thing it somehow gets me in trouble. Or, maybe trouble follows getting started on these things. I guess what I mean is. I don't know if it starts trouble, but trouble seems to follow getting started on tour and activity ideas. It can be fun, though, to think about scenarios.

What I'm thinking is. Is this. It could just be another thing I get started on that goes nowhere. and if it's something that goes nowhere. Like if all the ideas come up with go nowhere. Then I might as well work on a go-nowhere project that I kind of want to do. I'll think about it later.

A young woman at work mentioned that she is going to the University of Texas at Arlington, one thing that alarmed me was what she said she was spending on Tuition. She said it runs around 6000 per semester. I want, or maybe wanted to go, but I hadn't looked at the fees.

The go-nowhere project that I'm going to work on is the copyright thing. File a bunch and see what happens. and after that is done. See what happens.

I got another one of those marketing emails suggesting that I create some kind of tour. Really, though, every time I try this thing it somehow gets me in trouble. Or, maybe trouble follows getting started on these things. I guess what I mean is. I don't know if it starts trouble, but trouble seems to follow getting started on tour and activity ideas. It can be fun, though, to think about scenarios.

What I'm thinking is. Is this. It could just be another thing I get started on that goes nowhere. and if it's something that goes nowhere. Like if all the ideas come up with go nowhere. Then I might as well work on a go-nowhere project that I kind of want to do. I'll think about it later.

A young woman at work mentioned that she is going to the University of Texas at Arlington, one thing that alarmed me was what she said she was spending on Tuition. She said it runs around 6000 per semester. I want, or maybe wanted to go, but I hadn't looked at the fees.

The go-nowhere project that I'm going to work on is the copyright thing. File a bunch and see what happens. and after that is done. See what happens.

...

92 

Some pretty nice dividends for September. There were a few funds that I wasn't expecting dividends from because dividend payments for these funds weren't queued in my list of pending dividend payments, but they paid mother fucking dividends, not didn't they.

...

93 

It isn't so much an issue of time, as it is an issue of money. Although. Time is also an issue at times. For any idea that I come up with, I need money to fund the idea, and time to nurture the idea. I haven't come up with any ideas that really generate money, except for the stock market stuff, and working two jobs at once, all other ideas more or less go nowhere, or they lose money.

Now here is the problem, working two jobs hasn't really facilitated getting dates, but then, when I was working two jobs I think the only person I asked out was Sheridan, there was Beverly, but she found someone else like, a week after we went out, actually, they both did.

It seems like most women won't say, explicitly, that they are looking for a guy who makes a lot of money, but it becomes obvious that, like, due to lifestyle choices or preferences or whatever, that I would have to make more money.

A woman who wants a bigger car, or a bigger house, or bigger living space, or wants to live in a nicer neighborhood, or has a business idea. A business idea that is in the idea stage. The college girl. The fancy girl. The girl with a social circle that she needs to impress.

I haven't come up with anything that actually helps me make more money, other than working two jobs, and this stock market stuff, and the stock market stuff. Like. If I make money in the stock market, it isn't money that I really want to spend.

I'm spending a little bit of time clearing out my Google Drive, Reducing the amount of stuff I have stored there. There is some kind of a service that AT&T offers for storing files, but I haven't looked into it, and I'm not sure I want too much of what I have stored in different places. Like. I want it all in one place, really.

Jesus. I put in another order through my Interactive Brokers account. What I want to do is have all new cash split in half. I mean. I want all the cash that I dedicate to investing to be split into the two accounts, half going to my Robinhood account, and half going to my Interactive Brokers account. I don't know why I put in a new order. I guess I just wanted to or whatever.

Fucking hell. Where am I? There are some. There are a few things that I need to take care of, budget wise before the end of the month, and. These things need to be taken care of before I dedicate any more money to projects or anything. Projects like the copyright idea.

I just need 65 dollars to submit a copyright request, but really, this is like an expensive lottery ticket, an expensive lottery ticket with also, almost no chance of becoming any kind of money whatsoever. 

...

94

Even if there are occasionally really awesome opportunities out there, there isn't always an easy way to take advantage of those opportunities, or. there isn't always an easy way to get in on those opportunities.

I'm thinking. Still. about how to go about the copyrighting process. I do have two files. One file that contains a set of writings that I want to submit under the "Unpublished" category, and then another set of writings that I want to submit to the copyright office under the "Collective Works" category.

...


95 

Throw stuff away, maybe? I seem to be accumulating stuff. Like stuff. Like stuff that I don't actually need. Like things that I don't have much of a use for. There may always be face masks that I really don't need. There may always be things that I don't really need. Or things that have no use. Things that I really have no use for.

...

96 

I went to Jack in the Box and ate 10 tacos, then I walked over to the Chevron Station and bought a bag of chips, and had a Diet Pepsi. I put ice in the soda so that it doesn't fizz up too much, even though I don't really always like putting ice in my soda.

My downstairs neighbors are moving out. I wonder what else there is around here, what other places to live. There are a lot actually, there are a ton of new apartment blocks going up in the area.

There really might only be one option, and I don't even know what the fuck that option is, or where the fuck I was going to go with this idea. I really feel like. I really feel like I'm just not going to advance very far in life. I don't know what it is. 

Well. I feel like I'm back at square one again. I have to work with what sort of worked in the past, and I guess take it to the next step. What the hell kind of second job can I do? There was the whole idea of food delivery stuff, my car is too fucked up to take passengers in, and I really don't like taking passengers around anyway, and I like to smoke in my car, even if it really fucks up the interior.

I want to get around to buying a book. Some reading material. Something for enrichment. Something useful in some way.

...

97 

I'm hoping for overtime this week. I'm hoping to pick up some extra hours at work. I did sign up for overtime for the last three weeks, but there haven't been any notifications since for extra shifts that I can pick up. Yeah. I need the money. I always do. Who doesn't. Yeah, there aren't any posted for the coming weeks as of yet, but I guess I will keep an eye out for that.

One thing that I might consider, before looking for a second job, is seeing what options with the company are closer to my residence. Something closer. I really want to find something closer to where I live to cut down on the commute times.

There was this idea of finding an apartment closer to my work. I would have to move. Well. Obviously. But I don't know if that area is more, or less expensive than where I'm currently at.

I remember someone mentioning that something is going to open up closer to my apartment, like another facility, and this may make sense to seek a transfer when that happens.

...

98 

maybe i will create a tour activity. ill try signing up for the food delivery thing again. see if that works. if it doesnt ill put the idea on the back burner.

...

99 

i was thinking about something. whenever i mention the blue box ordeal. it serves as a kind of date block. like it's not even a cock block because i dont even get that close. well. so it goes.

what was i thinking about? i still havent gotten to it. i was thinking. it could be a while before i find someone i really like again. and then. as always. it turns out to become a disaster.

certain aspirations make me uneasy. the young woman who mentioned that she is going to UTA. i found her attractive, but the fact that she is in college, and some of her consumer preferences made me concerned. well. im sure that some of my consumer preferences could make a prospective girlfriend uneasy. my spending habits arent always the most intelligent spending decisions in the entire universe.

maybe i shouldnt bother doing any dating for the time being.

part of the reason i want to rule out getting a degree. or. part of the reason i want to rule out pursing any additional education is because im not sure im entirely employable for some of these sexier jobs out there. the jobs that require sexy work histories and sexy educational achievements.

...

100 

I'll figure something out. I will. I don't know. What exactly. I feel shitty. I don't even know. 

The news feed on my phone. I came across several articles on ghosting. Ghosting being when a person no longer interacts with another person. I get ghosted quite often, but I realize, that I also ghost people.

On the one hand, I've always been upset when someone ghosts me, but, I guess I can also see why it's done.

...

101 

I did get a notice that I'm being made a permanent employee with the company I work for. This is cool. I'm happy. This may mean that I'm going to have a new work schedule, and I really wonder what it's going to be because I can't really see it right now, I'm only seeing my existing schedule.

...

102

I put in one limit order through my Robinhood account. There are a few orders that I can't really see, and it seems like a limit order was executed the other day, and, I actually remember it going though. Yeah, I think I remember feeling that I didn't put it in low enough, but sometimes, if a limit order isn't executed for a while, I start to feel like I put the limit order in too low, rather than not low enough.

Sometimes the "Fair Price" listed on the analyst assessment of a stock is way lower than the market price, and so, trying to put in a limit at the analyst's suggested fair price results in the trade never being executed. Sometimes the analyst's fair price is way higher than the market price, and, really, when I come across that I don't get some kind of urge to buy tons of that stock, it just makes me think that there may be something wrong with the analysis.

...

103 

I'm thinking about the articles that I've been reading about "Ghosting." I think I mentioned that I've been ghosted before, quite a bit, and the ordeal of the blue box was perhaps the most disappointing ghosting experience that i've ever been subject to.

i'm thinking about the idea of reflection, how, i should look at myself and sort of apply whatever rules or desires i have for the behavior of others to apply to myself.

what i mean is. i don't like being ghosted, and when i think about how, when i ghost people. well.

how do i say things. walking out or whatever. i left california, nevada, missouri, and maybe, at some point in the future, i'll leave texas. and i really haven't kept into contact with anyone from the past. and maybe this whole thing of leaving and not really saying goodbye to anyone is a kind of ghosting act of my own. i've fucking ghosted people.

and it happens to me too. i wonder. so. maybe the things we do to the people around us are done to us. the ghosting that ive done becomes ghosting that i'm subject to.

Maybe the ghosting that I've done comes back to me as ghosting that I'm subject to. Maybe the ghosting that I've sent out to the world comes back as ghosting that is sent back to me.

I was reading about how high profile journalists at Conde Nast would find out on the evening news that they had been terminated, and, when I think back to this article, I think of this as maybe a kind of ghosting.

I wonder about those people who ghost others, and feel nothing, and I wonder, how do they feel when they are ghosted. and i'm wondering if, this is all because of things i've done first, or what.

I've ghosted before, and maybe this is me seeing how it feels.

Let's say that this is how the universe works, that I'm feeling this because I've done it before. Well, at what point have I paid my debt back to the universe?

and 

It might not be that there is a series of plus and minuses. it might not be that if I stop ghosting that I will no longer be subject to ghosting.

it might be that ghosting is the new trend, that ghosting is the way that people now interact with each other, maybe it's just the way it is.

maybe the adaptation to ghosting is to just get numb to it.

Maybe, get used to the idea that I'm not going to get any answers to this. Or at least not the answer I'm looking for.

Let's say I try to change my behavior. 

This probably isn't going to work, and here's why. There are really just times when there isn't any real reason to keep in contact with someone, for one reason or another. Ghosting is really the only solution to certain situations. There really are times when interacting with someone is really unpleasant, and the only way to stop it is to ignore the other person.

Sometimes ghosting really is necessary, it's sometimes hard to go into too many details with a person, and sometimes the person you are going into details with will just dismiss or dispute every last detail of your position, or argue about your position or perspective being wrong.

Really, if we are going to argue, it means we are just not going to talk in the first place. There is no point in arguing unless we need to.

Sometimes I come across Memes on Facebook or other social media with messages like "We Can Disagree and Still be Friends" and I'm going to say yes, we can disagree and still be friends, and, at the same time, we don't need to discuss anything we disagree about. We can be friends, and disagree. We can be friends, and not discuss anything we disagree about.

...

104

Thank god. There is overtime this week. Thank god. Thank god. I was worried. I accepted the overtime shifts. I don't like being in a position where I need the money, but, well, I'm in a position where I need the money.

There was something the other day, where, I was thinking about something, some conversation that I had with someone, and I wanted to think more deeply about it and write about it, but I never got a chance to do it, or think it through or toss it around in my head.

I made a few political donations recently, and I'm really starting to wish that I hadn't made those donations, and it's not because I don't support the politicians that I made the donations to, it's that I really need the money, and I really don't think that I needed to give that money away.

I don't want to be sour about the blue box ordeal, but, well, i'm not sour about the blue box ordeal, and i'm not bitter about the blue box ordeal, but i am disappointed about the blue box ordeal. but really, that whole ordeal was really, like, it was really like me begging for disappointment, like where the fuck was i expecting the blue box ordeal to go? like, was i expecting her to. date me? yeah. i don't even remotely know. i'm definitely open to it though. how else. what. like. how else was i expecting this whole thing to turn out? there was no other possible resolution to this.

where was. what other kind of response could i have reasonably expected? only a fucking crazy, lunatic would have responded positively to the. whatever the hell i actually did. stupid. stupid. well. yeah. i. i really don't know.

...

105 



...

107

i would like to go to the buffet. but i know that it will be more expensive than usual because it is the weekend. and. it's going to be busy. so. maybe later. i really want to go though. i am hungry.

...

108 

I get different results with the Myers Briggs test. Not huge differences, but, kind of some differences.

There is stuff that I need to take care of today related to work. It's mostly the transition from a temporary employee to a permanent one.

I did get a notice from one of the food delivery applications that I submitted to.

...

109 

What could I say? nothing really. what do i want to say? nothing really. what is on my mind? nothing really. nothing is really on my mind right now. i can't think of anything. maybe i should just rest until works starts. i'm not really as hungry as i thought i was, and, work hasn't been too physical. do i really worry about getting fat? i'm not sure that i really care one way or the other. actually. i do care. i don't want to get fat. but i am fat. at least kind of fat. well. why worry.

is there anything else that i need to take care of today? nothing that I can really think of. i should take a nap. college. this is so stupid. well. maybe i should think of it as picking up where i left off. i shouldn't rethink the whole idea of going to college or not, what i should do is think of picking up where i left off. i made the decision before that i should go, so what i should do is not rethink whether or not i should go, i should just go, because i already, a while back, made up my mind to go. the whole issue is getting started.

I should put it on my fucking calendar. but like so many things. like so many things that cost money, i often have to hike these plans down the line over and over for weeks and weeks.

but. here is a thought.

maybe i already have the money. I do have money. i already have money. i have money. i might have to get that through my head. 

i have to get through my head that i do have money.

but.

i just feel like once i start spending the money in my brokerage account, that it just spirals out of control. it has spiraled out of control before. i think that i should not spend that money.

...

110 

I cancelled a few limit orders on Robinhood, and then reentered new limit orders for the same orders that I cancelled. How do I say this. I had 2 limit orders for SPLG, I cancelled the two limit orders, and then put in a single limit order that I guess, consolidated the 2 previous limit orders.

...

111 

I was thinking briefly about cancelling all the limit orders, and then transferring the cash to my regular checking account, but I'm not going to do that. This will negate the whole purpose of all this investing that I'm doing. I don't want to do that. I don't want to go backwards unless I really need to, but I do think that I'll continue consolidating these orders.

So here is what I did, I had separate orders for SPLG and SPTM, but I figured that I'll just place 1 order under SPTM, figuring that SPLG makes up most of SPTM anyway, SPLG being the largest 500 companies, and SPTM being the largest 1500 companies, so, why have separate orders. Well. I guess I mean, why have separate smaller orders. I think I had, like 6 orders that I cancelled and made into one larger order.

Fuck. Well. I think that I got most of my Robinhood orders organized. I think so. I did mostly Limit orders, and then put a few market orders for fractional shares that I thought I may as well round up with, but that was really it. i'm still thinking. I have to remember to split all funds that I send to my investment account evenly between Robinhood and Interactive brokers, now, even if I do my best to do it this way, I know that out of impulse I'll end up sending slightly more to my Robinhood account. This is for two reasons.

First, Robinhood allows for instant access of the funds. Part of this is having Robinhood Gold, but really, I haven't needed more than a few hundred dollars worth of Instant Access in a while anyway. My budget is really slim right now, especially because I'm making less than before, and because, since I have my own place now, my expenses have increased.

Second, I get most of my news through my phone, and I may make some investment decisions based on the news articles I read. I want to say that this isn't the best way to decide what to buy, but sometimes it is, or, maybe it could be useful. The majority of my portfolio is held in funds that I looked at with a serious eye for extensive periods of time, funds that I'm familiar with and plan on sticking with long term. Anyway, since I make many of my impulse investments though my phone, and since I have the Robinhood app and not the Interactive Brokers app on my phone, it's likely that I'll make my impulse transfers to my Robinhood app to fund my impulse investments. I could get both apps on my phone, but, I don't think that I'm going to do that. Also. I don't really impulse buy and sell, I only impulse buy, so. Since I can't.

I can't impulse buy with Interactive Brokers anyway, at least I don't think so. The reason why is because I don't have instant access to my funds with Interactive Brokers, I have to wait 4 days for the funds to transfer from my bank to the brokerage, and then clear. So there is no point in installing the Interactive Brokers App anyway.

But should I be impulse buying and impulse investing anyway? Probably not.

...

112 

what motivates me? i want to say that it's usually necessity. but i don't always want to be in this state of doing things because i need to.

what im thinking of is: what does the universe want from me. and to what lengths is the universe going to go to get me to do what it wants me to do?

i don't want the universe to force me into something because I've neglected to do it on my own.

...

113 

I'm still thinking. i was able to complete my tasks that i needed to get done today. but it wasnt much. so. i dont know. it doesnt make me feel accomplished. well. oh well.

like. the universe. telling me what to do. or the universe. guiding me. or the universe pushing me. the thought is that maybe this difficult time in my life is part of this plan that the universe has for me. honestly. toward the end of my time in missouri. may and june. the idea of graduate school sort of faded from my mind. i had the money for school. and working two jobs was originally just for going to school. i had the money for school. and i either forgot about it or decided against it.

to me. there wasn't any point. in going to school if i could do fine doing what i was doing.

...

114 

clearing up my news feed. adjusting the filters. there is a ton of celebrity and sports stuff that i don't exactly want to follow. so i wont. filter those articles out. but there was one article that i did read that i found interesting. and maybe its kind of useful to read these. im not super sure.

good lord. there is a whole hell of a lot of garbage on there.

so i was thinking about what that guy said. the guy who mentioned how. after a breakup he pursued hookups. then came around to looking for a relationship again. so. what was on my mind was trying to figure out how a person would transition from the hookup seeking phase to the relationship seeking phase. if a person is successful in the hookup phase. why seek a relationship again? think about this. if a relationship is successful, there is no reason to pursue hookups. or. if a relationship is satisfying there is no reason to seek hookups or a new relationship. at least, that's what made sense to me.

anyway. this applies to the school thing. i felt like my time in Missouri was something of a success. or. i felt like my two jobs set up was successful so. i guess. i didn't feel the need to pursue grad school.

when things are okay. why change them? when things are going well. why change them. when things are good and getting better. why change them. change for the sake of change hasn't always made sense to me. although. i know that change for the sake of change is done.

what?

...

115 

Sometimes I'm really annoying by all these little things that remind me of. The. Blue Box. Individual. 
So what? well. The fractional orders went through, and I still have my limit orders outstanding. my limit orders have not been executed. this can be both a good and a bad thing. but I'll take it as a good thing. for one thing. well. point one i guess. or my first point for considering this is a good thing is that i want to reduce the amount of margin i'm utilizing, unless there is a drop in the stock market, and if there is a drop, i want to be able to buy in as much as i can. this buying the dip stuff is the best strategy that i can come up with right now, and considering the tools and knowledge and experience i have at my disposal. that i have available to me. so. be angry that i'm not doing more amazing stuff.

...

116

i think that when you appeared
to me in a nightmare i thought
that it was someone else, a demon
or a phantom or something. a
malevolent spirit. something evil.

...

117

For a lot of these old, archived posts, they may have meant something at one time or another, but sometimes I keep them here because I don't really want to delete them, and they still have information I want to look back on, or things that I want to look back on, pictures, or old links, that I don't want to get rid of completely. A scrap book of old memories and things I wrote down and things I took pictures of and things that I remembered, and things that I today look back on. 

What is on my List of Things to do?
I won't worry about that right now.
What i was thinking was that. well.
sometimes i think funny things, and
sometimes i remember funny things,
and there are times when i wish that
i had written those funny thoughts
and things down somewhere. i don't
always get a chance to do that.

What is on my List of Things to do?
I won't worry about that right now.
What i was thinking was that. well.
sometimes i think funny things, and
sometimes i remember funny things,
and there are times when i wish that
i had written those funny thoughts
and things down somewhere. i don't
always get a chance to do that.

it hasn't really mattered to me in the
longest time.

I have work tomorrow early in the
afternoon. the stock market ran up,
and then abruptly dipped the other
day. Still, my limit order wasn't filled.
not that I exactly want to to be filled.
i mean. i do want to to be filled but
i don't know if i want a drop that big.

there was this thing that happened the other day. I got an email regarding chocolates, and, i was thinking about sending the blue box recipient a box of chocolates. but. i don't even know. there is no telling what that could lead to. and I mean that in the sense that there are negative consequences of sending a box of chocolates that I'm worried about.

For a lot of these old, archived posts, they may have meant something at one time or another, but sometimes I keep them here because I don't really want to delete them, and they still have information I want to look back on, or things that I want to look back on, pictures, or old links, that I don't want to get rid of completely. A scrap book of old memories and things I wrote down and things I took pictures of and things that I remembered, and things that I today look back on.

Google Photos. I don't really need to have that book marked because it's already part of Google Workspace. I'm dumping links here and there throughout this old post. I want to put them somewhere, and at the same time, I don't want to delete them completely, and I also don't want to clutter up my browser.

but here is another thing, maybe chocolates could be a hint for something else. i have no idea. well. i don't know really. like maybe, maybe the second job stuff and sending a gift with my resume. it's an idea, but i'm not sure how well it would work.

working on cleaning out my email box. also working on cleaning up my calendar of stuff that i can do whenever.

benefits elections. i can do that later.

i may need to check my mailbox at the UPS Store. i have to actually go out there, but i think that i actually went there not to long ago. i really don't want to check it more than i need to because checking it requires a special journey.

...

118 

What was I thinking about? well, there was this discussion on twitter that i participated in, and, well, i don't know why i did that. I didn't say anything controversial or anything. so, not sure why i was worried.

I'm thinking about this budgeting bullshit that i'm working on. this budgeting bullshit that i have in the background.

i participated in the twitter discussion because i saw someone that i follow on twitter liked a post on the discussion, so i thought that i would say something.

i don't always totally care about all the issues. i think that so many discussions center about
"what should we do about this issue?"

and my thought is usually:
"what should i do about this issue?"

and what i mean is, so many discussions about social problems center around having a collective response to an issue, and i'm really just more concerned about my individual adaptation to the situation.

i don't know.
really.
well.
a collective response is important to have. of course.
and

an individual doesn't always have the easiest time to adapt to any particular situation. not always. and the adaptations are not always easy.

i still think, sometimes, that someone, somewhere out there is looking out for me, and that i really shouldn't always take credit for the successes that i have, but then, maybe i shouldn't take all the credit for my failures either. who knows.

i cleared out my phone of photographs, uploaded them here, then downloaded some files from google drive and uploaded them to my personal hard drive. those google drive photographs are going to take some time to go through and upload to my blog. a long time. really.

...

119 

Jesus. i hate having.

well. i guess i wont
really say that i hate
it or whatever

but i'm just reading
some of the old
posts that ive put on 

here and some of them
make me cringe. but 
really.

it's important to take 
a look at things, and 
think back about them

because maybe i had
a different perspective
when i wrote them

and maybe now i have
a different perspective
of the things i wrote, or
the way i reacted
or the way that i thought
in the past, and having
a look at them allows me
to shape the way i act and
think about things in
the future.

Jesus. i hate having.

well. i guess i wont
really say that i hate
it or whatever

but i'm just reading
some of the old
posts that ive put on 

here and some of them
make me cringe. but 
really.

it's important to take 
a look at things, and 
think back about them

because maybe i had
a different perspective
when i wrote them

and maybe now i have
a different perspective
of the things i wrote, or
the way i reacted
or the way that i thought
in the past, and having
a look at them allows me
to shape the way i act and
think about things in
the future.

...

120 

What do I have to do right now? I'm not even sure. sometimes it's really just best to do nothing, than to do something for the sake of being busy. part of the reason for something like this is because, in the effort to stay busy, it might be possible to preform a task that has to be undone later. so. think it through first. but don't think so long that nothing gets done. it's a balancing act. of course it is. well. yeah.

Things that I want to get done in the not to distant future

- Copyright
- GMAT Study Guide
   - Retake Entrance Exams
       - GMAT
       - LSAT
       - GRE
- Research College Stuff

Here is something i was thinking. it is important to socialize. there are practical reasons for it. i'm going to leave this thought where it is and move on to something else.

there was something else that i have on my list of things that i want to do.

- Copyright
- GMAT Study Guide
   - Retake Entrance Exams
       - GMAT
       - LSAT
       - GRE
- Research College Stuff
- Study Stock Trading
   - Review Investments
   - Books and YouTube Videos
   - Classes
   - Textbooks
   - Periodicals

and that reminds me. I've been wanting to subscribe to a periodical, but i haven't had the chance to do it.

there is this issue where, if short term objectives occupy all your time, it's harder to really make much progress toward longer term goals.

i want to say that graduate school is something like this. like. i never went, and i have really made very little progress whatsoever toward that goal.
but

maybe graduate school as it relates to business, like, business related grad school programs are better after you've been in the workplace for a while. maybe. i don't know.

i want to say that. in school, it's sometimes, or maybe, its usually important to know how the information you are learning is useful.
it's important to have examples.

a person who wants to go to graduate school for business does field work in the workplace, the same way a person who wants to go to gradate school for botany heads to the jungles of africa or south america.

where do other disciplines do their field research, and is the above example a really good one?
like what?
why go?

...

121

Sometimes. the reason for buying a fractional share isn't totally because I want to really invest in the company in question. Well. that's not true. if i buy a fractional share, that means i do want to invest in the company, but. sometimes the fractional share purchase is similar to book marking a stock. i might want to buy it later after doing more research, but not just yet, so i buy a fractional share, i realize that i never really look at anything i book mark. or. maybe it do, but not a whole hell of a lot.

sometimes the fractional share purchase serves are more of a book mark than an investment. i did notice that a small amount of additional buying power was available in my robinhood account, so i put in another limit order. i forgot what the purchase was, i think it was a preferred share focused etf

i think. i think that there might be a point where investment preferences or investment trends shift once this recent black swan event passes, and, i think, what's on my mind is will i shift things around? the answer is yes, but, not a huge way. things like preferred etfs and dividend etfs and consumer staples ets and reits or whatever don't do super well during a bull market or whatever, whatever is trendy does well during a bull market, i think.

but i don't want to shift out of these safety picks in a huge way once we get into a bull market because. my thinking is that i need these safety investments for whatever black swan event comes next, so, i really don't think i'll shift out of them in a huge way. what will change is how i allocate new incoming funds.

there should be a 

trendy investment strategies etf,

and this etf will follow whatever the trendy sixteen year olds are investing in.
because
i mean
obviously sixteen year olds know everything.
now
sixteen year old investors might not have wisdom and experience, 
but they do have naiveté,
which is a much valid strategy than what all those old farts are
doing.

well
i'm being a doofus.
really, i'm only a 2 year old investor when it all comes down to it.

i only started investing 
after i met

you know who.

she didn't have anything to do with
that, and for me to connect the two
events is kind of a propter hoc kind of
thing.

...

122 

I made two orders of fractional shares, but they were book mark type purchases, I just want to watch them. There is an issue with robinhood, at least when it comes to the desktop format. the issue is that when i see what dividends were paid out recently, i don't always know what the ticker symbol is, so it isn't always clear to me how to make an additional purchase. well. i could just go into the app and look up the ticker symbol. in the mobile app the ticker symbol is connected to the dividend payment, so i can see it there, and make the purchase through the app instead.

but i don't know if using recent dividend payment as a cue for making additional purchases is a hugely intelligent strategy.

but it's a strategy i guess.

...

123 

Morning time. I can't think of anything. one things that I'm lagging behind in. is. Catching up on articles that I bookmarked on Facebook. I wanted to read these, any I think that I should read these, but I haven't gotten around to reading them.

I think that I am hungry, but, I'm not too sure. How the hell much money am I going to spend on food? I should fucking starve! I have all the fat reserves in the Permian Basin.

Well, according to the map of Basins, I don't actually live in the Permian Basin, therefore, I do not have all the fat reserves in the Permian Basin.

Well, how are you today?
I think that I am doing fine?
How fine?

Finer than fine fine, finer than fine wine
finer than a speeding fine, finer than a cosine.

how are things where you are? did you eat all of the hamburgers that I specifically told you not to eat? did you eat them! are they in your Belly?

how much do you want? one shillion dollars? 
well, maybe we could settle for half a shillion dollars?
what would that work out to? i have never come
across the quantity of one shillion.

Hear me out
a smore is basically cracker on the outside, chocolate on the inside.

so you know what there is on the backside
of this 20 dollar bill?
your butt cheek.

then the lady came over and told me that
she was kicking me out of the strip club.
i asked her why and she said i was a total
pervert. well. maybe she is right. I was. after
all. chilling at a strip club.

now here is this issue.

she wanted 1 million for the parcel of land.
however. i only offered half a million. she
said some crap about the possibility of it
having black gold.

and i thought, holy shit. but wait! i want
regular gold!

how could she have been so bold as to
suggest that her land contained black
gold when she really knew that i really
like regular gold! i thought it was cold
how she dismissed my love for regular
gold as being any less extra-large a desire
over the desire for black gold over the 
desire for rose gold or sapphire gold.

do you like blue gold?

i know you like blue cheese, but
have you experienced the taste of blue
gold!

Pinche Culo, and Pinche Culero, I translated these as 
butt fuck, and butt fucker

but they are more accuratly translates as fucking ass or fucking asshole.

Pinche Culo Pinche culero

I remember one time calling someone a Butt Suck.
and the difference between a butt suck and a butt fuck is.
well, whether the butt is sucked, or fucked.

Chupar and mamar are spanish verbs for "to suck"
infinitives. 

...

124 

Right now, there is nothing on this blog post.
now there is something here.

i'll get the copyright stuff out of the way. soon. really soon. I think. Really soon. maybe sooner rather than later. maybe now. maybe later. i want to get it done soon. and do it. really do it and get it done. you know how serious i am about this. you know how seriously i want to be an owner of intellectual property. you know what i mean. you know. IP is intellectual property, and IP is an internet protocol. and IP is insane pussy. the kind of pussy that drives you insane, or a pussy that is itself insane. how insane, fucking crazy.

stream of consciousness exercise performed above.
stream of consciousness. free association. free writing. gestural immediacy. brainstorming.

get it down on paper. just get it down. getting it down on paper, and just plain old-fashioned getting down. would you rather get it down on paper, or get it down. Period.

What do you mean? how do you know what I mean when I have no idea what the question is, or even how it relates to the real world. can you tell me fourteen times what the idea is and how the cultists of this new religion of yours plan on eating all the food in the temple granaries.
tell me?
well.

If you have to know. i still think of things that were said to me over ten thousand years ago when you and i were sitting atop the park bench in central park. not the central park in New York City, but the Central park in the City of New York. 

Where the fuck was that again?
somewhere in kansas, and somewhere over the rainbow.
She had a license plate that said kansas, and for that reason, i think that she may have been newer to the area.

how new?
newer than most people in the universe. people don't exist until they are created during the intimate act.

they are not created during the intimate act. they are created during the birthing act. try to get that right. don't try to take credit for more than you are really responsible for. it's one thing to deliver a creampie, it's another thing to deliver a baby, and don't even try to equate the two.

okay. okay. i won't try to equate the two. give me a break.

well. here is the thing that you are thinking. i know what you are thinking because i can read your balls. i can read the lines on your balls like they are lines of letters on paper. can you tell me how many people are in the side of the origami makers of three thousand years ago.

where did you go.
are you here still.
think about the things
that you love doing.
and do you love.

think about your goal, and fall in love with your goal.
i am in love with my goal. but
maybe my goal is also something
that.
try not to think the.
try not to think of the world in terms
of love and orange juice. just think.
and stop watching so many dirty movies.

it makes me jealous.
well. i thought the same thing actually.

did you really think the same thing. and did you discover
anything like you thought that you would discover, and did
you think that everyone who wins in the course of the video 
game would eat all of the paper. can you tell me how you went
to the store the other day and ate a hamburger, and how afterward
you ate an onion that smelled like garlic fries.

can you smell all the colors of the 
can you sing with all the oranges

can you smell the yellow birds and the horse raddish
bitch mothers of the bird in the pocket.

the birds in hand.
the birds of jesus can you stop.

it wasn't that good. it was even better than i thought it
would be. so it may not have been good. it was actually
better.

how much better. better than you know.
so much better than you know.

when i think of that. it actually makes me jealous. it
actually makes me think of what a total dick you are.

and it makes me think of how i was sad yesterday, and how

i overcame the taste of your coochie. it's a flavor i won't
forget.

stop being so dirty. it was cute at first
but now it's starting to annoy me, and if
you keep this up. i may just start to hate you.

now. on a scale of 1 to 10, how do you
are you, and can you smell me.

yes. i can smell you think of me
and remember. it's nice. really nice.
you loved it and you love the oranges
in the baked alaska.
shoot

well was that supposed to be dirty. i don't think
that it was any dirtier than the dishes in the sink.
i think it was dirtier than the dirty clothes in the
dirt clothes container.
can you see how everything is cold. How the gold
in the frosted flakes can change colors.

...

125

I placed a few limit orders. I cancelled 2 limit orders, then put in 2 new ones. I switched my limit order from SPTM to OEF, same overall amount, I think, and I also put in several market orders for fractional shares.

free fall. open the parachute. adjust. figure out exactly how to land.

I think I transferred another 90 bucks into my Robinhood account. This was an impulsive transfer. I have to remember that I have to watch out about that. Transferred. the word has a double R. I have to remember that. Transferred. There is this thing where spell check where. I know a word is misspelled, and I also know the correct spelling, and spell check and auto correct won't have the correct spelling available. Or the word suggestions or spelling suggestions are way off.

...

126

I'm thinking about the 90 bucks I sent to Robinhood, and I was thinking that it was something that I could have sent to. I was thinking that it was 90 bucks that I could have used to submit my Copyright Request. This is just another thing where. I'm guessing that sometimes our impulses get in the way of other goals. but. building an investment portfolio and building a copyright portfolio are two different goals, and they are both goals that are important to me. and this could have just as easily turned out to be an impulse copyright request.

yeah. it's a fun game. I play it when i have time, and i usually don't have very much time, but when i do have time, i play it.

This computer that I have isn't very powerful, and it's not powerful enough to play any of the games that I enjoy playing. I don't know if I should seek out the purchase of a more powerful computer or what.

I'm downloading another blog of files from my Google Drive in an effort to eventually clean out everything. This is going to be a cycle. I download things, then re-upload them. and on and on. this last block of files was really large, and now this next block of files is really small.

I still have time to make my benefits elections. I have to look into it, and I want to say that I want to push it off until I have more free time, but I have free time right now, and this task is on my calendar, and I think that I will just get it done. Really, what's the delay for? I don't know. I think I will just get it done.

I'm going to take the food delivery sign up task off my list of things to do. For now, anyway.
Fuck it. I have the money. I'm just going to do it. Fuck it.

...

127 

I filed the copyright. i figured. Fuck it. This is sooner than I wanted to publish it, but Whatever.

...

128 

pictures! pictures!
i took pictures of things
that i saw when I went
driving to salt lake city, 
there was a lake
and there was a salt factory.
several salt factories in fact.

...

129 

now the issue is to work on my benefits elections. and i will go ahead and do that.

...

130 

Completed the Benefits Stuff.

...

131 

Jesus. Well. I want to wait until I have 10 poems total before submitting another copyright request. Or. I don't know. Fuck it. Maybe I'll just publish them here, on my blog.

The Promise

Guess what? I will get a copyright this
   weekend. This actually feels sooner than
   I really want to do it, and it is
   sooner than I want it done, and I can

wait a few more weeks, and the issue will 
   be just as important in the future
   as it is now, but I actually feel 
   like giving you an update much sooner,

rather than three weeks or a month after
   I first mentioned it, and you might bother
   me about it, and I want to answer 
   your hoped for question with something other

than: "I haven't done a fucking thing yet,
   I've been all talk ever since we first met."
   Honestly, I'm trying to impress you
   with an approach that I believe is new.

Completed

I went out and filed the copyright
   for a poem of mine as I mentioned
   I would when we last spoke on Wednesday night,
   animated, thinking that I'd be read 

by the editor at some notable
   literary journal, and being thought 
   of as an organized and capable
   person who can complete online forms wrought 

by some Mandarin bureaucrat, sitting
   at some desk at the Copyright Office,
   Thinking Byzantine thoughts, emulating
   the complex Labyrinth of Minos twice

over, and doing it with paper and 
   countless fields to fill the crush my hands.

Letter from the Conoco Station

This morning I took some time to shave my
   head and face. I don't think that this will make
   me better looking or anything, I
   just felt like cleaning up, but what's your take

on my appearance? I know I'm an old
   guy, boring, and excited by the small
   accomplishments that I make: I bought gold
   coins for the first time at the Dallas mall,

I got a copyright, I cooked salmon, 
   shaved my head and brushed my teeth, bought new shoes,
   bought gas and ate a doughnut this morning
   at the Conoco station, read the news,

and then wrote you this letter, just thinking
   of you, and coffee we could be drinking.

Your Home Country

I was really curious about you,
   and I still am. I thought Venezuela
   was a shining example of the new
   and progressive communist formula:

Free gasoline and healthcare for us all,
   free food and education, and income
   guaranteed and enough to have a small
   basis upon which to enjoy life. Some

misinterpretations must I have had.
   I believe you when you say people starve
   to death in the streets of Caracas, bad
   water and rotten food filled with larvae

and spotted with fungus and mold are fed
   to kids, dissenters are shot in the head. 

The Hibiscus Plant

This silly thing is a complete nightmare:
   every day my hibiscus plant is swarmed 
   with aphids turning its green leaves yellow.
A mantis, with it's preparatory stare
   hunts them all down and eats them, he is warmed
   by the hot Texas sun, and the shallow

pile of hot ash and garden clippings
   that I leave at the plant's roots. Fearing death
   for the mantis, I have my misgivings
   about using insecticide, the breath

of the Raid can kills aphid and mantis
   alike, its fumes irritating my lungs
   and adding growths to my lymphs, cancerous,
   or harmless, as sworn by the expert's tongues. 

An Argument for Electric Vehicles

When you wore those sweatpants that said: "Don't look
   at my pussy!" I immediately
   looked down and stared at your crotch and mistook
   your mandate for some kind of inversely 

stated request. I was guessing that you
   wanted precisely one cameltoe gawk
   and a flirtatious remark to come through
   my lips and settle on your ears, the clock

was spinning fast as I formulated
   the exact things to say, which came out as:
   "Don't you think that gasoline is outdated?
   and that we should used volts instead of gas

to fuel our cars and our economy?"
   I was delighted when your grinned at me
   and said: "Yes, the time for petrol has passed!"

Her Dirty Socks Smell like Methamphetamine 

go ahead and sniff her dirty
socks you pervert

her feet are as smelly
as any other persons
smelly feet

you are just obsessed with
her and infatuated with every 
drop of sweat from her
body

even possessed by the foot
stench of her feet
and she has big ass feet
no joke
real talk

i don't even know why you like 
that slut
her socks smell like an unwiped butt

... 

132 

How would you define an estate? I have to look that up exactly.

...

133 

One thing that I have to watch out for is that my budget is going to be reduced. Here is the issue. My benefits will reduce my take home pay by about 50 dollars per week. so. 200 to 250 per month. Shit.

So this will but a speed bump in accelerating my saving and investing plans, and any other plans that I have that involve money. Including copyright filing and stuff like that.
Shoot. Well. I guess that's just the way it's going to be. I guess that's 
just the way it is. Well. Whatever.

I'm reading that it is possible to choose your own HSA provider, and that you don't need to go with the HSA provider that your employer selects for you, however, what isn't clear to me is how to. Do I still get the employer HSA contributions if I select a different HSA provider?

I need to keep those markers for. For when I submit my next copyright request. I don't see why I should pay more for a copyright for the Unpublished set as opposed to new sets. but I might test it out anyway, just to see how it works differently.

I went on kind of a spending spree today. well. I made additional transfers to my Robinhood account, then filed the copyright, and put in more fractional orders.
I have to watch out about that. Silly. I don't know what it is.

...

134 

Well. Now that I have the copyright filed, i should remember not to obsess over that whole thing for a while. I may file a new one later on down the line, and that will be pretty awesome. but. I won't worry about it for now. there are certain balance sheet issues that I have to worry about now. So. Don't worry about any of my long term ambitions for now. The copyright thing is in, and that is something I don't have to worry about for another few months.

what I should be concerned with for the short term is increasing my income. that is. finding a second job, or getting in on the side hustle stuff.

...

135 

a new word. and this new word will be queeftastic. the 
word queeftastic will have a definition.

although the words are similar. delayed and prolonged mean different things. a delayed ejaculation is one thing. a prolonged ejaculation is another thing. an ejaculation delayed for 1 hour is not the same as an ejaculation prolonged for 1 hour. think about having an ejaculation that lasts a whole hour?

i sometimes see documentaries of people who suffer a condition that causes spontaneous orgasms. supposedly it's actually a headache to suffer from this condition.

im thinking of a poem that goes something like:
i come so intensely
whenever you are
near me.
it's a haiku.

...

136 

i dont think ill do any more copyright stuff 
for the time being. i could focus on something else.

im dissapointed that the hsa isnt through fidelity. i guess i could look into alternative providers and figure out how to move to fidelity instead.

you are an area 51 test tube baby. no really. you are. and that's why i love you. you are a real fucking alien. and im writing this. Kenneth. not you. so dont even try to copyright it. i am the moon. you are my spawn.

after he was born. he was no longer a mass of cells. 
he became. a human. still alien. but also a human.
just shut up for a minute. im trying to think.

...

137 

so what is. stupid. well. here is. dumb man. this charging cord is short as shit.

...

138 

god damned. stupid 
when you
ate the best foods.
fucking shit. dumb battery. shitty.

...

139

So. I know I'll do well not to 
spend too much 
money over the next few weeks. 
I really don't spend anything.
I mean.
I usually don't make any unusual purchases.
Well. Maybe a few months ago.

but.
normally. and almost always i really don't
buy anything that 
i don't really need.
the copyright stuff.

placing those orders for copyright registrations
was not a necessity, but it was something
that I wanted to do, and it wasn't too 
expensive. so. in my mind it was an okay thing
to do.

Jealous really, now that I think about it.
Well
Who knows.

have you found yourself talking
to yourself more and more these days?
stuff like that happens, but it goes away,
you know, the need to talk to someone
who.

you know, the need to talk to someone,
we all need to talk to someone, and sometimes
some of us aren't really available to
have conversations, or whatever, or
we have something else on our mind.

this copyright crap. I have an 
idea for my third copyright 
filing.

This was mentioned in a previous
post, but I decided against submitting 
a copyright request for the unpublished
poems as an unpublished set, and just
submitted them

with my standard application for copyright
protection. or whatever. protection.
whatever.

well
there is a difference,

there is a huge difference. now
are you wearing a huge

baritone horn? or are you
wearing a thong? a slipper?
or a thong? what are
you wearing right now?

High heels? are you getting
high wearing high heels?

Don't do that!

it is the worst
thing that a person
like you could
do for the economy!

...

140 
 	
the payment that i issued from chase to my citibank credit card is taking forever to arrive. like really. i think that i sent it on the 25th of last month. i wonder what's going on. i'm sure it will get there eventually, but in my mind i still think of it. i mean. until that payment is processed it's still something that i have to think about and look out for.

certain things. like. i want to do certain things, like work on my stamps and coin collections. Study, or buy a book for an entrance exam, research graduate school. but i think that the most important thing is taking care of my bills and expenses.

...

141 

I'm going to go ahead and get started on my day. I showered, took my vitamin, and that's one thing I have to remember, I have to remember to take my vitamins. I've been tired lately, and I think that it has to do with me not taking my vitamins regularly. I'm going to eat, and get some gas. There is still this whole desire to transfer some more money to my investment accounts, but I know that I should hold off on that.

And I shouldn't totally worry about it either, because, through my HSA and 401K 80 bucks per pay period, excluding employer matches. My employer matches contributions to both, but not dollar for dollar, so, I have to not totally feel like I'm not investing enough.

I am doing okay, and I think that I have to recognize that. I have to recognize that I am doing okay. I am paying down my credit cards, and getting things organized. I have to make sure that I don't spend money on anything stupid.

I really just want to close the remaining credit cards that I don't usually use. I really fucking do. I don't like the idea of having to worry about them. I know that I should keep them open, and ultimately, I think that I will keep them open, it's just that I really want to close them. I have four credit cards total, and I really think that I'm going to limit myself to 4 credit cards. and that's it.

I want to say that I didn't have a balance on any of them for quite some time. I'd have to look. Yeah. I don't really know I tried to look it up, but I'm tired and hungry and I want to get out of here.

...


142 

so. maybe the next evolution of these posts will be to revist and annotate older posts. it's an idea. im starting to re-obsess over the copyrighting bullshit.

...

143 

i saw 5 apache helicopters flying around haslet. that was pretty cool. i was heading to work. i went to the other seven eleven in haslet because the one off 35 was packed and the soda machine was broken. so i ordered a soda and 2 hot dogs. and this is after i already had a soda and 4 sliders at the seven eleven in Arlington. i really think that i eat too fucking much.
work hasn't been too physical, so i havent been fatigued, but ive still been tired. i dont think it's a lack of food. obviously. im eating a lot. i think its that i havent been taking vitamins with any regularity in a while.

debits and credits. when you point the finger at someone, take time to point your own finger back at youself and think of a time when you were guilty of a similar act that you berate another person for.

is this useful? only for self improvement, i think. maybe, keep your failures to yourself. it is possi le to undermine youself by exposing your own past mistakes.

but i think that this is only because other people wont do the same thing. i dont know how to explain this.

i havent figured out an alternative to using 3 stars to delineate between different tangents, or different lines of thinking that occur within the same post.

this can be a problem later. the problem is that when i submit my next series of copyright request, i will have to delineate between posts as well as delineate between different lines of thought within each post as well.

i may consider submitting copyrights for the reflection series, the innocuous post series, and indefinite hiatus series as they are. 

simultaneously ill include revisits of them in the sanford street series. this could be a kind of monumental task. this could take forever.

i dont have anything else to say other than my car is a dump and a disaster. i need to clean it up.

...

144 

this is where I think you were when you said
that you would come back here and give me
a backrub when you said you would give me
a massage when you said that we could hang out
and spend time together when you said that 
we are friends when you said that we could be
good for eachother when you said that hamburgers
are better than do-nuts.

...

145 

what i was thinking was this. suppose i copyright the reflections series, and then revisit posts from the reflection series in the sanford street series and copyright the sanford street series. what happens?

what i mean is. suppose i have copyrights on both, but at some point i sell one copyright to one party. and thr other copyright to another party.

not that i really anticipate it getting that far.

i want to drive to the store to get a fountain drink. i just. its a huge waste of time. i can get a soda here from the vending machine.

i shouldn't really work on too many things. too many different things. i should just focus on one project for now. and the project i want to focus on is my writing and  copyrighting project.

we cant always really. stand each other. 
what i mean is. i would like to attend college in person. it just seems expensive to really. pay to take classes online.
this was the same way i felt about most of the options after leaving las vegas.
what i wonder is. is it the degree that matters? or is it the information that's important?
i took online classes for the real estate stuff. but.

...

146 

i thought about looking something up but then. i thought better of it. im having trouble being happy. the thing about psychiatric care is that. maybe medicine numbs. maybe it's easier to tune out unhappiness when im on meds. but ill tend to tune out a lot of other things as well.

its like being asleep for years. thinking back about my time on disability. it was really just wasted years of my life. but even if i had worked during those years. im not sure how much progress i would have made anyway. it's extremely hard to function on meds. it's almost like being drunk all the time.

but not being on meds it's a constant vortex of unhappy thoughts. im sure. though. that this is only temporary. ill find something to keep me occupied. truth is. since i have my passport. i was thinking of. i dont even want to write it down. 

...

147

What am I thinking? Well. when I look at myself in the mirror, I really hate the way I look. I think that I'm getting fatter, and my face is hideous. 

Well. Maybe I shouldn't really think this way. I'm not hideous.

but my.
Well. I.

damn. Well. I don't even know.
There was something I forgot to do. 
There was this thing available at work.

Like. Training or, kind of. Kind of like enrichment courses
at work, and I was thinking about signing up as soon as i 
got off of work,

but, something happened and I didn't do it.

Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being baptized an acolyte of Christianity & Co. Inc, PLC. so. You know. It's like that.

Well. I was feeling somewhat sad earlier. This always happens, it happens. Sometimes I get sad. Sometimes I feel down, and I guess there is nothing that I can do about it. What I was thinking. The line of thought that I was going down was that being in the psych ward, being in the loony bin. It's almost like being frozen or something, and then getting a bill at the end. nightmare. it really can make things worse rather than better. you get out, you try to get things back together, but youre in this hole. fuck. and meds are the same way, i cant think. everything doesn't matter. nothing matters. nothing really computes. nothing makes sense. nothing means anything. im not able to feel anything. maybe nothing bothers me, but nothing matters to me either.

it's super important that i take them. really.

where does the time go? it disappears, and then you really have nothing to show for that time.

nothing. waste of time going there, to the psych ward. waste of fucking time, nightmare, pills. nobody takes their pills, almost no one. Or they will insist that they don't have an issue. I see it all the time. Or they insist that they have an issue that pills will have no effect on.

Really, like i mentioned before. Taking pills is like being drunk all the time, I won't feel anything, and nothing will really bother me, but it's really hard to function with them.

...

148

Another block of buying power freed up on my Robinhood account. I thought maybe my previous limit order was cancelled, and then the buying power returned to my account, but this was actually not the case, the issue is that. I have no idea, maybe my portfolio volatility is decreasing, as a total percentage, my margin utilization has declined.

Anyway. I put in another limit order on SPTM, so now I have to, total between the two limit orders is something like 2400 at 40 per share. So, that would require quite a drop to be filled, a 5 percent drop almost? i don't know if that will happen anytime soon.

but anyway, if it doesn't get filled, that's okay, because I need to reduce the amount of margin i use anyway.


...

149

i don't even know. like i'm really 
not happy right now. like really. 
so. not doing well. well. not feeling happy.

go out and. make yourself happy.
that isn't really.
that's not a really helpful idea.
happiness.
maybe this.

...

150

So what did I 
not
get done today?

Well. I didn't work on any of the 
copyright projects that I had in mind.
I don't want to say that

this is due to a lack of free time. 
I have plenty free time

I have enough free time
to work on this whole thing.
but this stretch of time
from thursday to friday is
sort of the only time. the only
free time i usually have.

I'll

fuck.

well.

what did i actually get done today?

well. I went to the buffet and ate
food. and i usually don't. well
not that i usually don't go, but
i haven't gone in a while. i do 
have to watch my spending and 
my eating. I don't need a whole
hell of a lot of food. i don't need to
eat a whole hell of a lot of food.

the young woman who had taken an
interest in me a while ago was there,
she wasn't there the last time. i gave her
my phone number the last time i saw her
and she never called me. so.

there's never.

i could never figure out why i never 
seem to make any progress with women
i actually like. i don't really know why.

if i try hard. theres pushback.
if i'm persistent, it's stalkerish.
if i back away, i'm not interested.
if my pursuit is mild, it's half-assed.

i'm going to be honest to myself about
something, having my own place hasn't
really resulting in me being more datable.
it really hasn't. i'm just as single now,
with my own place, as i was when i was
living with my fucking dad.

this was a huge waste of money, and.
i just never should have done this.
i should have just been resigned to the 
fact that i'll probably always be limited
to being single.

huge waste of money.

I think it's different for everyone. I think
that everyone's experience is going to be
different, but, my conclusion here is that
moving out of my dad's house was pointless.
like really pointless.

but i was sick of living with them anyway.
fucking spectacular waste of money.

fucking spectacular waste of money.
unbelievable waste of money.
fucking dumb.

i would have done this a lot later.
but i have to remember. i was getting
tired of living with them.

i don't. i don't remember every small
detail that motivated me to get out of 
cameron, Missouri.

fucking dumb. I'm so pissed. i hate this.
i fucking hate this.

but maybe. maybe there are other reasons
why i had to move out, like. even though
they hadn't said anything, it might be
that on their side they thought that I should
get out.

i really don't like spending money on rent.
i fucking hate it. i really fucking hate it.
i really hate the lonliness.

i don't know. do i really want to live
with someone?

damn. i don't fucking know. i really don't

i don't know what the fuck.
maybe i'm just pissed off right now and 
maybe i don't really mean any of what i'm
saying right now.

...

151

i have to get my shit together. am i a mess? for sure. totally. im a total mess.

im relaxing right now. i was to get a fountain soda. but. i dont know.

what. do. i. want.

she kept saying it
over and over and
eventually i just
found it annoying.
it's not that i didn't
get along with
her or anything.

...

152

jesus. right now. outside the seven eleven. acorns tap against the roof of my car. im thinking.

...

153

i keep thinking that im behind in some way. in terms of investing. or at least. the amount that im investing or setting aside for inveating. for september i put about 1000 bucks into my robinhood account. i might be doing okay. i chose to look at september because it wouldnt have been an unusual month.

it may be less than i want to set aside. but its more than i estimated i would.

...

154

what the. fucking. shit. not. this isnt in response. to. anything. i guess. im just sort of lost. right now.
not lost in any real sense of being lost. just confused i guess.
planning. maybe everything is a slow. kind of. work in progress.

maybe everything takes a while. it's all incremental. the idea that everything happens in monumental shifts can be deceptive. or misleading.

progress can be slow. and maybe it's important to realize that. maybe a breakthrough happens at some point. but. don't bet on it.

i read an article the other day about the lockdown in new york city. the mayor and the orthodox jewish community are at odds due to the lockdown, and the mayor addressed the orthodox community about the nuances of the lockdown or whatever. the mayor described it as a discussion. the orthodox community countered that it was more of a one way monologue.

i find that description interesting. and useful. sometimes conversations really are one way. like. the other person just hammers me with things to say and i cant get a word in.

...

155

a coworker asked me about my progress toward finding a second job. i explained that i hadnt really done much, part of the reason being that i dont totally need to, and as a result, there hasnt been much drive to find a second job.

but. there are other reasons in addition to the lack of a need that cause me not to look for one. i have other things that im spending my time on. but im not sure that's a really valid impediment for not finding a second job.

the copyrighting project that im working on isnt a full time job. and im not really doing much in terms of getting into a graduate school program.

so what is it really, that's holding me back?

it might just be limited to not having a huge need. ill put it back on my calendar.

here are some thoughts on the subject.

one. there is a waiting period. i cant just jump into it. sometimes jumping into something makes a real mess out of things. i have to be deliberate about it.

two. my thoughts are that i have to get a second job that allows me to be somewhat unkempt in my appearance. the amount of grooming. well. maybe that isnt a valid requirement either.

anyway. the conversation with my coworker shifted toward talking about investments. i mentioned that i concluded that i might not need a second job because i put 1000 bucks toward my investments last month. and that means i have i little bit of room in my budget. like. a comfortable amount of room. but thats not true. 1000 bucks is okay. but its not ideal.  

she had questions about investing that i had trouble answering. not because i didn't know the answer, but because i didnt know how to explain them. i want to say that there is a certain conceptual framework that has to be understood before it's really easy to talk about investing.

She asked "how do you get your money back?" i almost couldnt understand the question. to me. its like someone asking how you get your money back from the bank.

if someone asked me about, say, a savings account and asked how they get their money back after putting it into a savings account, i would be thrown off by that. to me. i dont distinguish between money in the bank and money in my wallet, and going one step further, i dont distinguish between money in an investment / brokerage account and money in a bank account or money in my wallet.

The conversation was, well, I just couldn't understand it.

"How do you get your money back?"

And it was really hard to understand because I couldn't figure out what specifically she was asking.

I still can't understand what she was asking, now that I think about it.

I wanted to say:

"You take it out." or "You take it back."

Conversations are really difficult with all the mask wearing. For one thing, I can't hear shit, and two, my voice is muffled when I have my mask on. Trying to have a conversation with a mask on is extremely difficult.

I think my co-worker and I could have had a better conversation, but, I was really having trouble hearing and understanding, and speaking.

The second question she asked was:

"Couldn't you lose all your money?"

and this was another question I couldn't understand, because to me, you could lose all the money you put anywhere, depending on the circumstances. You could lose all the money you put in your wallet, all the money you put in your bank account, all the money you put under your mattress, all the money you put in your bitcoin wallet, all the money you put into your house, to me, no matter where you put your money, you could lose it all, so I had a whole lot of trouble understanding her question. Like, I really did.

I should have spent more time trying to explain each question. 

i signed up for some of the learning workshops at work. this should be fun.

part of getting a second job is. i dont know. having a more presentable appearance. online and in person. it depends. though. on what the job is.

i still get emails sent to the ilovekristin@chestnutandhazel.com email address even though i made my best effort to remove it from any place that may be where im looking for work.

what really got me was a marketing email for chocolates. i really thought about ordering and sending some, but i dont know where i would send them. i thought maybe i would send them to myself. but. i really dont want to spend money on candy. i mean. for myself anyway. i also think. im also sure that my. antics. were perceived as highly unusual.

these were strange times. and i want to remember them. i used to post these reflections privately on facebook as only me posts. maybe one day ill get around to scraping my facebook and posting them here. im sure that there are other weirdos out there like me.

i dont hope to normalize strange behavior and i dont hope to push for acceptance for strange behavior and i dont hope for any kind of understanding from anyone who doesnt understand me. 

i dont know if. one day. someone like me will come across these notes. i dont know how this story is going to end, but, i swear, life is a lifelong struggle.

there was a food pantry event at my apartment complex earlier today, I did get some food, but I wish I had taken more, there were noodles, I should have taken more noodles. I kind of skipped passed the canned food, except for the corned beef hash. The reason is that I don't have a can opener, but, I actually used a serrated knife to open my can of corned beef hash, and it actually worked.

i was able to get a few things done on my list of things to do. it was mainly resolving the issue with the credit card payment from my chase account to my citibank credit card. I updated the bill pay addresses a while ago, and then checked on them again today. basically, the payment was cancelled. and my money was refunded.

with all these scams on venmo and cashapp, sometimes i wonder if there could be situations where fraudsters use a bank's bill pay system to dupe people into issuing bill pay checks to the wrong entities. 

it just seemed so odd to me that fraudsters could manipulate the search engine results to such a degree that they could make a google search show up a fake customer service number for venmo or cashapp. something like that requires a hell of a lot of technical savvy, and it scares me to think of what kind of tricksters are out there. I mean. there are always tricksters and fraudsters, but. it's bad isn't it? really bad. and then reading about fraudsters targeting robinhood accounts. this is all a little crazy.

I cancelled my previous limit order on SPTM and switched in to IWV, from an S&P 1500 index fund to a Russell 3000 index fund.

one thing that I'm thinking is that, as a whole, there are companies that are rising and falling, and, if there were more companies falling than rising, then the stock market, and therefore the economy as a whole wouldn't be growing, right? there are some articles that talk about how the stock market and economy are becoming increasingly detached from one another, but this should only be temporary.

I would guess that the divergence from the economy as a whole, and the stock market is due to the fact that there are businesses that are part of the economy that are not listed on the stock market. Companies that are privately owned and don't have shares listed on an exchange, and really, a lot of people have businesses that aren't incorporated, and i'm sure there are a lot of corporations that aren't publicly listed, and i'm sure that there are a lot of partnerships out there that, you know, aren't listed on a stock exchange.

but, i would imagine that larger companies or listed companies would fill in the void in the economy that isn't being filed by non-listed business entities. or maybe listed companies buy smaller unlisted companies, and by that process, the smaller unlisted companies becomes part of the stock market by becoming part of a larger listed company.

but i had this question before, i was wondering at one point how the stock market could increase at a rate faster than gdp. gdp growth is only a few percent per year, like 3 percent or. it's small, but the stock market is expected.

what i mean is, i was wondering how the S&P 500 grows by about 8 percent per year, but GDP only grows by about 3 percent per year.

and this was maybe last year or whatever, but. How do i say this. Whatever answer I came across I was satisfied with. I was satisfied with whatever answer I came across and considered the issued settled in my mind.

I don't remember exactly what I cam across, but I think what it was, was that GDP doesn't include all economic activity, or doesn't include certain types or forms of economic activity, but a publicly listed company might derive it's revenue, from economic activity that isn't counted toward GDP.

...

156

im at home. waiting around before i leave to work. i would normally leave around 8. but it makes more sense to leave later than that. i plan on leaving at 9. this is still an hour more than i need, and an hour should be enough of a buffer for a 45 minute commute.

i have to be more economical with my time. i shouldnt leave home for work 3 hours before work starts. its silly.

do i want to try the whole 2 jobs thing again? the answer is yes. i was close to 25 K in my robinhood account not too long before i left missouri. and i could have done day trading. i could have gone to graduate school. i could have worked 1 fucking job and still grown my portfolio and gone to school. i dont know why i left. it's over now and there is no going back. i know that at some point in the future ill face a similar situation.

dont rush off. stick around. sometimes things are difficult and. sometimes you just have to deal with it. it's good that you're in texas. you'll be okay. and maybe one day you'll actually be happy about all this.

im i really an area 51 test tube baby?

no, but you are an idiot. but that's okay. you'll live. 

do you have telepathy?

no idiot. youre talking to yourself. youre so weird. stop watching so much porn.  you irritate me. and im pretty sure youre a lunatic. the kind that howls at the moon. youre a nocturnal animal. stop talking to yourself.

twitter. gmail. pintrest. i have too many porn bot webcam ladies on facebook and instagram. so. i try not to log in. to facebook or instagram. i have to clean that up.

jesus. what would life be like if money were not an issue? it's a silly thought. money is always an issue, and if the issue is not money, then it's scarcity, or some other limitation on the fulfillment of needs and wants. so why think of what life would be like and try to see life for what it is. try to stay grounded. try not to float around in space.

busy. that's as Much as i want to say about that. longer days and more days. if money were not an issue, would i even bother leaving the house?

are you sure you dont have telepathy?

im sure i dont have telepathy. im sure youre actually talking to yourself. and that youre actually not lying when you tell youself that.

...

157

Fuck. I got a notice in the mail for some tolls that I was charged here in Texas. This is annoying. Earlier in my visit here I was trying to help some guys with their business, they didn't have a car so I did the driving, but when I was following their route instructions, the almost always had me go down toll roads, and it's not that I didn't notice, this was part of the reason I stopped working with these guys. They're racking up a toll bill on my dime, I eventually stopped responding every time they said they had work to do, there is no point in taking up work that costs me more money than I make. anyway, the tolls came out to about 40 bucks.

Sometimes there are situations where a person might irritate you, and you start to wonder, or you think back about the situation, and wonder if they were trying to irritate you, just to see how you would react.

I guess, as with most things, it's preferable to know as opposed to not know. Or said another way. Knowing is preferable to not knowing.

I'm just going through my emails, a lot of these I just won't really do anything with. Tons and tons of emails that are more or less total junk emails.

I want a second job, but I really have to wait until something. I have to wait until a better time, but I don't know. I know that, when I was looking. Back in Cameron, Missouri, it wasn't a good time to look for a second job, but I kept getting emails regarding an opening at a company in town, and I took it, even though I was really hesitant, but. I was able to work out scheduling issues with a co-worker that made it possible to have things work out.

It's everything a kind of series of ups and downs? Emotions. Anything really. Success and failures, times of happiness and times of sadness. Periods of happiness and periods of sadness.

dont try to insist on things. on something specific. maybe a close approximation or substitution will work just fine.

what?

yeah. i dont know. its was just an idea.

i still dont exactly know what's up. lve been limited to 40 hours a week at work. i dont know how to think of this exactly. should i use this extra time to explore ideas for a second job? a project? or school? 

i made some purchases on index funds. and a few limit orders. maybe some fractional purchases on single stocks as well. i might just focus on index funds for the time being. until i figure out something better.

i saw that my dad tried to call me. i didnt pick up the phone. most of our conversations dont end well. so i figured why should i have another one. it just wont end well. i have no idea what he wanted to say, but i figure that if he wanted to say it, he would have left a message. he mat have just wanted to see if this number is still active, and calling me, wether or not i actually picked up the phone, would have accomplished that.

maybe i will try some job search stuff. i have no idea. well. lets just say yes. for now. throw out a few resumes here and there. i just dont see a whole lot of ways to climb the socioeconomic ladder other than working two jobs. at least for the time being.

going to graduate school is kind of a longshot. its expensive. it takes up time i could be working and making money. and there is really no certain chance that it will improve things for me.

and there is a span of time between when i get the process started to when its completed. anything could happen during this time that really throws a wrench in the whole process.

the ashalea issue in vegas, and the two jobs issue in kansas city. having two jobs seemed like a more remunerative alternative to going to graduate school. the ashalea situation centered around not being able to pay for grad school because i was spending all of my money seeing her. and then spending all of my time trying to make up for whatever budget deficit resulted.

there would have been no time to study or any money to pay for school. if there was some way to make it all work out, i never figured out what the answer to that would have been.

i think what keeps people locked in lines of work they dont want to be in is not having the financial liberty to leave it. it's not possible to leave a job if you dont have the money to leave the job. it's a nightmare. a real one.

peace of mind is probably one of the things in life i value the most. i remember someone once telling me about investments and he was saying that he wouldnt invest in anything that causes hin to lose sleep at night, and i think what he's saying applies to a lot of things.

dont be in a position. any kind of position. that causes you to lose sleep at night.

i dont want to get caught up in the wrong situation again.

i still dont know exactly how to focus my job search. the main thing is that i would like to transfer to a position closer to my home.

i want to stay with the company im employed with and just transfer to a location closer to arlington. this would allow me to find something in either dallas or fort worth.

but it may be that my skill set isnt suited for one of these office jobs. or, for some reason or another, im just going to be locked out of an office job.

the other issue is traffic. what a nightmare.

like what do i do what the hell do i do?

it's been extremely hot these last few hours.

...

158

and so when
you see her
again she will be
wearing a
bonnet 
a nice one.

Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being baptized an acolyte of Christianity & Company Incorporated, PLC (Société anonyme). so. You know. It's like that.

when you see how everything
is the best of how all things
taste and when you see how
it hears the beating of your

ill have 2 days off this week. what to do? look for a second job, i guess.
for some reason im not able to issue a scheduled payment for my rent 1 month in advance. its maxes out at 2 weeks before.
i slept almost the whole day. i didn't get anything done, and this actually felt really nice.

maybe.
the thought that i
would have ended up
dating her
was some
strange delusion

on my part.
i am still
disappointed.

well. since i spent most of the day sleeping, i dont really have anything to write about and reflect upon.
i have 3 paychecks left this month. since ive been capped at 40 hours per week. im almost worried. i don't think ill be short, i just wont he able to invest as much as i would like to.

two days off this week. still. i would have wanted more overtime. i dont know. what does this mean. i still sometimes think of the universe itself making my decisions for me, at least in the sense that, when it all comes down to it, i kind of. i dont know, have limitations on how much i can really change things.

if i ever get my head straight. i mean. when i get my head straight. i think ill. i want to try dating, but really, it's such a headache. it's such a fucking nightmare. why do it? really? why? each attempt is just. a torture chamber.

and. finding my soul mate. or. an ideal match. or the one. or a perfect partner. relationship optimization.
they are all similarly difficult to achieve.

jealousy is a catalyst. jealousy can intensify things. but to me it seems like such a sucker's approach. find something real to get the other person interested.

it's. i dont know. today i dont feel. like. a pit of sadness in my chest. i dont feel. a mass of sadness in my center. i don't have anything on my mind now.
maybe in the future this won't figure too much into my psyche.

...

159

some buying power freed up on robinhood. i put in a few limit orders and a few fractional market orders. for the time being im just going to focus on market index etfs. i transferred additional funds into the account as well, even though i really wanted to hold off on doing so.

once im more comfortable im going to get back into picking specific stocks and thematic funds, reits or sector etfs.

...

160

Jesus. here.
here is where
you went shopping
for a new personal
assistant

I was thinking about it, but it totally slipped my mind.
One is school. I think I'm just going to get started on it, there is no point in fucking around. I'll buy the study guide right now.

Bought it.

Now my figuring is this. and it's fucking stupid. It's still just an attempt at being more datable, going to graduate school, I want to re-take the GMAT first.

So what were the issues last time I had the entrance exam shit? Well, I remember not being prepared for the quantitative stuff, and the essay question, well, I didn't read the last portion of the essay prompt correctly. 

There was a 1 paragraph prompt, and a 1 sentence question, and I neglected to pay attention to the question at the end of the paragraph, and I sort of responded incorrectly.

But I figure this, I'm already essentially broke as it is. Not totally broke, but really I'm more or less broke, like long term I'm not going to have much success doing what I'm doing.
I don't know how to explain this, I'm at the bottom of the food chain as it is, I might have some money saved up, but, I.

If I spent it all on school, then, that's better than I guess.
I don't know how to explain this.

My fear of graduate school is that it could turn out to make my life worse because it could be a waste of money, put me into debt, but it's not like I have a whole lot of money to lose anyway. 15 grand? or 18 grand I think. That's peanuts when I think about it. So. School it is.

I mean, fuck it. it only took 18 months to make 40k in Missouri working two jobs. If I take out student loans, I probably wouldn't take out more than 40k so. I mean, going for broke isn't something I really want to do, but, if I actually go broke, I don't think it would take a whole, hell of a lot of time to recover.

I paid my tolls.

What's the next aspect of this whole situation that I need to think about? I hope that. I didn't do anything too stupid, before. You know.

Let's see. The problem with the GMAT or any entrance exam stuff is that I would have to actually pay for the test when I schedule it. I can't schedule it first, then pay for it closer to the test date.

I really don't want to do any online classes right now.
UMKC wasn't closed for the pandemic.
I still don't know why I left. 
Still.
I don't know.
I should look at colleges in the area.

...

161

okay, so maybe some of this stuff is
kind of offensive, I mean
well, I guess quite a bit of
it is offensive. so. I'm cleaning it.

i went to inflate my tires at seven eleven. but the air pump was broken. so i went to the texeco station. fucking seven eleven pump was so fucked up that it deflated my tire.

honestly. i wish i could get an update.
you did. earlier.
i dont think that counts. i would like something real.

So now I fixed the files
that i have on my desktop.
i got rid of the old, previously published set, and
replaced it.
well.

I saved it and put it on my portable drive,
and now i just have these other ones to deal
with.

The issue that i mentioned
previously about how to
separate topic breaks in
a series is just now becoming an issue.

I seem to have a series called,
Jorbalia

it's a series of notes that I took
before i started the reflections
series.

i'm getting together the
reflections series.
and I have 50 or so of 
the posts collected so far.

this could take a really long time
to get together. and like i mentioned
earlier, i stumbled upon a series that
i didn't even remember ever starting.

i went and spoke to the
case manager
it wasn't a long chat
just an update of what
has gone on
since we last spoke

we didn't take about me
reapplying for disability

maybe it will have to be
something i do on my own

but i can figure it out
the job starts tomorrow

my thinking is that
if this does become a
night job
i probably
can find something
during office hours
in Kansas City

so things can be okay
having just the job here
in cameron would be okay
but it would be an extremely
long road to freedom

long and extremely
fucking slow
like really slow

So we cleaned up the yard, took all the scrap
metal and put it into a trailer
and took all the garbage, the Christmas wrap,
and present boxes, each Christmas mailer,

the Styrofoam fillings, each cardboard box,
and a dog house we tore down, and put it
all into a huge pile, and the fox
looking dog, and the other dogs would flit

around the the stack as we poured gasoline
and set the wood and trash ablaze, the heat
hot enough to melt steel, and a smoke screen
masked our incendiary winter treat:

a black plume of smoke shot into the air
from burning tires and plastic cookware.

There are times when things might be totally
over for you and someone else, it's done
and there is not a fucking thing mortally
possible for you to change things. A ton

of bricks, placed on your chest, things will never
be the same, we won't see each other for
a very long time, we were together
for a few short months, impossibly sore

from the intensity of closeness and
the intensity of separation.
A heart with our initials in the sand,
there one minute, then washed away, frustration

in my mind, and in my heart, in my skin
as I wish again we can live in sin.

Guess what? I will get a copyright this
   weekend. This actually feels sooner than
   I really want to do it, and it is
   sooner than I want it done, and I can

wait a few more weeks, and the issue will 
   be just as important in the future
   as it is now, but I actually feel 
   like giving you an update much sooner,

rather than three weeks or a month after
   I first mentioned it, and you might bother
   me about it, and I want to answer 
   your hoped for question with something other

than: "I haven't done a fucking thing yet,
   I've been all talk ever since we first met."
   Honestly, I'm trying to impress you
   with an approach that I believe is new.

Completed

I went out and filed the copyright
   for a poem of mine as I mentioned
   I would when we last spoke on Wednesday night,
   animated, thinking that I'd be read 

by the editor at some notable
   literary journal, and being thought 
   of as an organized and capable
   person who can complete online forms wrought 

by some Mandarin bureaucrat, sitting
   at some desk at the Copyright Office,
   Thinking Byzantine thoughts, emulating
   the complex Labyrinth of Minos twice

over, and doing it with paper and 
   countless fields to fill the crush my hands.

Letter from the Conoco Station

This morning I took some time to shave my
   head and face. I don't think that this will make
   me better looking or anything, I
   just felt like cleaning up, but what's your take

on my appearance? I know I'm an old
   guy, boring, and excited by the small
   accomplishments that I make: I bought gold
   coins for the first time at the Dallas mall,

I got a copyright, I cooked salmon, 
   shaved my head and brushed my teeth, bought new shoes,
   bought gas and ate a doughnut this morning
   at the Conoco station, read the news,

and then wrote you this letter, just thinking
   of you, and coffee we could be drinking.

Your Home Country

I was really curious about you,
   and I still am. I thought Venezuela
   was a shining example of the new
   and progressive communist formula:

Free gasoline and healthcare for us all,
   free food and education, and income
   guaranteed and enough to have a small
   basis upon which to enjoy life. Some

misinterpretations must I have had.
   I believe you when you say people starve
   to death in the streets of Caracas, bad
   water and rotten food filled with larvae

and spotted with fungus and mold are fed
   to kids, dissenters are shot in the head. 

The Hibiscus Plant

This silly thing is a complete nightmare:
   every day my hibiscus plant is swarmed 
   with aphids turning its green leaves yellow.
A mantis, with it's preparatory stare
   hunts them all down and eats them, he is warmed
   by the hot Texas sun, and the shallow

pile of hot ash and garden clippings
   that I leave at the plant's roots. Fearing death
   for the mantis, I have my misgivings
   about using insecticide, the breath

of the Raid can kills aphid and mantis
   alike, its fumes irritating my lungs
   and adding growths to my lymphs, cancerous,
   or harmless, as sworn by the expert's tongues. 

An Argument for Electric Vehicles

When you wore those sweatpants that said: "Don't look
   at my pussy!" I immediately
   looked down and stared at your crotch and mistook
   your mandate for some kind of inversely 

stated request. I was guessing that you
   wanted precisely one cameltoe gawk
   and a flirtatious remark to come through
   my lips and settle on your ears, the clock

was spinning fast as I formulated
   the exact things to say, which came out as:
   "Don't you think that gasoline is outdated?
   and that we should used volts instead of gas

to fuel our cars and our economy?"
   I was delighted when your grinned at me
   and said: "Yes, the time for petrol has passed!"

Her Dirty Socks Smell like Methamphetamine 

  go ahead and sniff her dirty
         socks you pervert

   her feet   are as smelly
as any other persons
      smelly    feet

      you are just  obsessed   with
 her and      infatuated with every 
   drop of  sweat from her
           body

even possessed by the foot
       stench of    her feet
and she   has big ass feet
no     joke
     real talk

   i don't even know why you like 
        that slut
    her socks smell like an unwiped butt

I'm very tired. I don't have a reason
for being tired. I just am.

I went to Jack in the Box and
had 10 tacos. I haven't done that
in a while, but I did it today, and
maybe 2 days ago.

There are a few things. There
are a few places that I haven't gone
to in a while. One is the Pizza
Buffet, and the other is the Chinese
buffet, I thought about going to
either one of them today, but then
decided not to do either one.

There was actually someone at 
the buffet that was kind of nice to
me, and I gave her my phone number,
but she hasn't called.

Wendy's

When I'm really hungry there's nothing that
   satisfies me the way the triple with
   cheese does: I eat the whole thing in the bat
   of an eye. If they ever add a fifth
patty to their hamburgers I'd be first
   among the masses to go there and buy
   one. Five juicy patties to quench my thirst
   for greasy meat: the apple of my eye.
Something about Wendy's makes it better
   than other hamburger joints: the patties
   are never frozen and they are wetter
   and juicier and satisfy fatties
in a way that other hamburgers don't,
   eating at another burger place won't.

A Call to Action

taste the best of the oranges
and eat the best of the pumpkins
and taste tea made of franks

and beat to death the people who
are already dead inside

...

162

this is annoying. nothing is publishing to my blog.

i might just give in and get a regular internet connection. i may try some of these remote roles that i see often on job boards.

i really need the money for school.

but i shouldnt worry too much about loans.

but the horoscope did say overcompensating would cause problems.

yeah. kenneth. that must be regarding something else. go to school. it will be good for you. i promise.

...

163

After getting off of work I went straight home, and napped for the rest of the day. or slept. I just woke up maybe an hour ago. I was tired. Driving home is always a nightmare. Traffic. Stop and go. Everyone driving like a lunatic. Stop and go traffic is annoying when driving a stick shift.

there was something strange earlier, looking stuff up. Right now I'm working on putting together my Reflections series for submission to the Copyright office. There are a hell of a lot of these, and it's taking a while for them to load, even though they are all text.

Still working on scrapping the Reflection series from my blog and putting it all into a text file. This is taking a while and it's amazingly tedious. Really tedious. I don't know how long this is going to take in total. I don't know how many posts I had total for the Reflections series. Maybe 1100. I have just over 100 posts collected.

I don't want to submit the Reflection series to the copyright office in multiple sets. In other words, as a series.

The total size of the Reflections series is about 1200 posts, but many of them are really short, tweet length posts. Many of them are. Really, but. it takes just as long to copy and paste a short post as it does to copy and paste a longer post, so, Regardless of how long the posts are, they all take about the same amount of time to copy and paste and upload to my file.

Should you double up on Vitamins if you have missed a day of Vitamins? I have no idea, but I know that you shouldn't double on on prescriptions if you miss a dose of your prescriptions.

I did get another liquidation notice from my Interactive Brokers account. Piece of Shit. Well, I guess that Happens. It isn't like Robinhood where it's really clear to me where I stand with my Margin account, part of my lack of familiarity with Interactive Brokers is that I hardly use the platform. I do log in nearly every day, but there is so much to it, that I haven't really explored it all that much.

They say that the squeaky wheel gets the oil, but some people just need to shut the fuck up.
Some people need to shut the fuck up, but people say that the squeaky wheel gets the oil.
So which is it?

A few limit orders went through, so, I guess that could be good and bad. Well. Good. And Bad. Well. Good and bad. Well.
You know what I'm thinking.

Paying down my Chase card right now. Really, I have to slow down on spending and investing right now.
Fuck. I'm thinking.

I keep checking my energy bill to see if a new one has been issued, but it doesn't seem that one has been issued, well. I'm checking it now and it's loading.

What's the real struggle here? God I don't really even know. At some point I have to plan on moving to somewhere less expensive. But I don't really know. Maybe just stick it out for one more year, it means I really have to complete school. It means I really have to go to school.

certain things can be a mess, and, as a result, but really horrendously difficult to clean up, like really fucking difficult to clean up.

I have a set of prospectus documents that I'm going to go through and read right now. I have no idea how long I've been sitting on this issue. I wonder why I never got and prospectus documents from Interactive Brokers?

It may be that you can access them through the Interactive Brokers Platform, and that you don't receive them after the purchase, but I have no idea.

These prospectus documents are actually very fun to read.
I had enough of that shit.
Well.

the prospectus documents attached to my purchase of OEF included prospectus documents for other ishares index ETFs, the introduction was more or less the same for all of them. All together the file was 88 pages long. I'm sure I'll get another copy sent to me later, but. Whatever.

So there is a statutory prospectus, and a summary prospectus. Of course, the summary prospectus is the shorter of the two, but at least in one case, and I've only looked through 3 so far, but the summary prospectus was just, more or less the introduction to the statutory prospectus, and it seemed copied word for word.

I want to submit another copyright request today. I really do. I mean I really feel the urge. Really Feeling it. Oh Yeah.
but, it's something I can do later, and it's something that I probably should do later.

being afraid of confrontation, or avoiding confrontation, or being avoidant, or having an attitude, or being confrontational, or being aggressive.
maybe it was total bullshit.
I really hope she got the things i sent her, and I hope she kept them. i don't know.

...

164

Do I really want to look through all of these? I mean, do I really fucking want to look through all of these prospectus documents? 

And

This is just the first email that I've gone through, out of all the shillions of emails that I have archived and need to take a detailed look at.

Nothing to Write

I cannot think of anything to write,
I lack ideas and motivation,
a writer's mental blockage is my plight,
I cannot make a poetic creation.
I'm shooting to write a poem per day
regardless of how much inspiration
I have or if a block is in my way
to have a book is my aspiration.
My dream is to have my work paid for and
printed on paper. Others have it so
why not me, why shouldn't I also stand
with others who've made their poetry flow.
I tell myself to just keep on writing
something will come up something exciting

I don't even really want to read any more of these prospectus documents.

Asian beauties, Russian Beauties, and pills
   to enlarge your penis, a lottery
   check is waiting for you, and unpaid bills,
   and deals on ancient Chinese pottery.

A handful of rice and a slice of spam
   and a sheet of nori: wrap it around
   and you have spam musubi, then you cram
   it into your throat and swallow it down.

Spam is something that en masse you delete
   because everything caught by the filter
   is useless. Spam is something that you eat
   unless your stomach feels out of kilter.

Spam is a nuisance, and also a food
one is deleted, the other is stewed.

Every day there's a new barrage of text
   messages queued inside my SMS
   box telling me of all the greatest shit
that I need to know: Tesla's not indexed
   to the S&P 500, new sets
   of rockets where shot into space with kits

of Chinese terrariums filled with plants
   in an attempt to colonize the moon:
rice so good that caterpillars and ants
   have reallocated all their doubloons into

a new space rice rocket landing mobile
   and lunar rice paddy REIT's, while roaches 
   have a position on rice terraces
on Martian mountains and hope to double
   rice shipments with interstellar coaches
   powered by Lockheed and L3 Harris.

And then there are notifications from 
the webcam ladies on Pornhub asking
for another round of seed funding, some
kind of boob photograph monetizing

algorithm that basically turns boob
photographs into cryptocurrency
called titty coins that every single N00B
playing Call of Boobies can use to see

the exact location of the knocker
exposure device, which will debrassier
all the dudes and chicks with great boobs faster
than a mechanical hand. Yet, we fear

a high degree of illiquidity
for any cryptocoin based on titties.

The calls that come in from some random chick
from some far away place where call centers
dot the landscape and everyone is sick
from the COVID lockdown that our betters

have forced upon us. She keeps asking me
for donations for the starving lions
of the Kalahari Jungle, and pleads
for donations in cryptocoins, tying

the success of her crypto nonprofit
to the results of the latest death stats
issued by the local health department

my GMAT book arrived.

Asian beauties, Russian Beauties, and pills
   to enlarge your penis, a lottery
   check is waiting for you, and unpaid bills,
   and deals on ancient Chinese pottery.

A handful of rice and a slice of spam
   and a sheet of nori: wrap it around
   and you have spam musubi, then you cram
   it into your throat and swallow it down.

Spam is something that en masse you delete
   because everything caught by the filter
   is useless. Spam is something that you eat
   unless your stomach feels out of kilter.

Spam is a nuisance, and also a food
one is deleted, the other is stewed.

Every day there's a new barrage of text
   messages queued inside my SMS
   box telling me of all the greatest shit
that I need to know: Tesla's not indexed
   to the S&P 500, new sets
   of rockets where shot into space with kits

of Chinese terrariums filled with plants
   in an attempt to colonize the moon:
rice so good that caterpillars and ants
   have reallocated all their doubloons into

a new space rice rocket landing mobile
   and lunar rice paddy REIT's, while roaches 
   have a position on rice terraces
on Martian mountains and hope to double
   rice shipments with interstellar coaches
   powered by Lockheed and L3 Harris.

And then there are notifications from 
the webcam ladies on Pornhub asking
for another round of seed funding, some
kind of boob photograph monetizing

algorithm that basically turns boob
photographs into cryptocurrency
called titty coins that every single N00B
playing Call of Boobies can use to see

the exact location of the knocker
exposure device, which will debrassier
all the dudes and chicks with great boobs faster
than a mechanical hand. Yet, we fear

a high degree of illiquidity
for any cryptocoin based on titties.

The calls that come in from some random chick
   from some far away place where call centers
   dot the landscape and everyone is sick
   from the COVID lockdown that our betters

have forced upon us. She keeps asking me
   for donations for the starving lions
   of the Kalahari Jungle, and pleads
   for donations in crypto-coins, tying

the success of her crypto nonprofit
   to the results of the latest death stats
   issued by the local health department.

How many people are dying this week?
   Fuck You! and pay me you dumb fucking mink!

Countless messages from random ladies 
   on Instagram, most of them telling me
   how naughty their webcam streams on OnlyFans
are, the best positions and poses, these
   days, with modern cosmetic surgery,
   all the chicks are hella fine, pale or tan,

it doesn't matter, spray one on, or bleach 
   one off, there are coupons in your spam box
that you can economize with, and each
  tanning solon has TikTok whores galore,
     each and every one a big titty fox
  that I really want to make nice and sore.

I don't need tanning, I'm already bronze,
except for my Johnson and his bon-bons.

Maybe that's enough for now on this idea. I did get an offer from work to come in, so maybe I'll do that. As with everything, I can use the money.

My paycheck was larger than I was expecting, because of the benefits, and I also didn't realize that I put in as many hours as I was paid for. The days really can drag on.

and that's okay. I'll Leave now I guess. but this. I don't know what the commute will look like.

Asian beauties, Russian Beauties, and pills
to enlarge your penis, a lottery
check is waiting for you, and unpaid bills,
and deals on ancient Chinese pottery.

A handful of rice and a slice of spam
and a sheet of nori: wrap it around
and you have spam musubi, then you cram
it into your throat and swallow it down.

Spam is something that en masse you delete
because everything caught by the filter
is useless. Spam is something that you eat
unless your stomach feels out of kilter.

Spam is a nuisance, and also a food
one is deleted, the other is stewed.

Every day there's a new barrage of text
messages queued inside my SMS
box telling me of all the greatest shit
that I need to know: Tesla's not indexed
to the S&P 500, new sets
of rockets where shot into space with kits

of Chinese terrariums filled with plants
in an attempt to colonize the moon:
rice so good that caterpillars and ants
have reallocated all their doubloons into

a new space rice rocket landing mobile
and lunar rice paddy REIT's, while roaches
have a position on rice terraces
on Martian mountains and hope to double
rice shipments with interstellar coaches
powered by Lockheed and L3 Harris.

And then there are notifications from
the webcam ladies on Pornhub asking
for another round of seed funding, some
kind of boob photograph monetizing

algorithm that basically turns boob
photographs into cryptocurrency
called titty coins that every single N00B
playing Call of Boobies can use to see

the exact location of the knocker
exposure device, which will debrassier
all the dudes and chicks with great boobs faster
than a mechanical hand. Yet, we fear

a high degree of illiquidity
for any cryptocoin based on titties.

The calls that come in from some random chick
from some far away place where call centers
dot the landscape and everyone is sick
from the COVID lockdown that our betters

have forced upon us. She keeps asking me
for donations for the starving lions
of the Kalahari Jungle, and pleads
for donations in cryptocoins, tying

the success of her crypto nonprofit
to the results of the latest death stats
issued by the local health department.

How many people are dying this week?
Fuck You! and pay me you dumb fucking mink!

Countless messages from random ladies
on Instagram, most of them telling me
how naughty their webcam streams on OnlyFans
are, the best positions and poses, these
days, with modern cosmetic surgery,
all the chicks are hot, with or without tans,

it doesn't matter, spray one on, or bleach
one off, there are coupons in your spam box
that you can economize with, and each
tanning solon has TikTok whores galore,
each and every one a big titty fox
that I really want to make nice and sore.

I don't need tanning, I'm already bronze,
except for my Johnson and his bon-bons.

Asian beauties, Russian Beauties, and pills
to enlarge your penis, a lottery
check is waiting for you, and unpaid bills,
and deals on ancient Chinese pottery.

A handful of rice and a slice of spam
and a sheet of nori: wrap it around
and you have spam musubi, then you cram
it into your throat and swallow it down.

Spam is something that en masse you delete
because everything caught by the filter
is useless. Spam is something that you eat
unless your stomach feels out of kilter.

Spam is a nuisance, and also a food
one is deleted, the other is stewed.

Every day there's a new barrage of text
messages queued inside my SMS
box telling me of all the greatest shit
that I need to know: Tesla's not indexed
to the S&P 500, new sets
of rockets where shot into space with kits

of Chinese terrariums filled with plants
in an attempt to colonize the moon:
rice so good that caterpillars and ants
have reallocated all their doubloons into

a new space rice rocket landing mobile
and lunar rice paddy REIT's, while roaches 
have a position on rice terraces
on Martian mountains and hope to double
rice shipments with interstellar coaches
powered by Lockheed and L3 Harris.

And then there are notifications from 
the webcam ladies on Pornhub asking
for another round of seed funding, some
kind of boob photograph monetizing

algorithm that basically turns boob
photographs into cryptocurrency
called titty coins that every single N00B
playing Call of Boobies can use to see

the exact location of the knocker
exposure device, which will debrassier
all the dudes and chicks with great boobs faster
than a mechanical hand. Yet, we fear

a high degree of illiquidity
for any cryptocoin based on titties.

The calls that come in from some random chick
from some far away place where call centers
dot the landscape and everyone is sick
from the COVID lockdown that our betters

have forced upon us. She keeps asking me
for donations for the starving lions
of the Kalahari Jungle, and pleads
for donations in cryptocoins, tying

the success of her crypto nonprofit
to the results of the latest death stats
issued by the local health department.

How many people are dying this week?
Fuck You! and pay me you dumb fucking mink!

Countless messages from random ladies 
on Instagram, most of them telling me
how naughty their webcam streams on OnlyFans
are, the best positions and poses, these
days, with modern cosmetic surgery,
all the chicks are hella fine, pale or tan,

it doesn't matter, spray one on, or bleach 
one off, there are coupons in your spam box
that you can economize with, and each
tanning solon has TikTok whores galore,
each and every one a big titty fox
that I really want to make nice and sore.

I don't need tanning, I'm already bronze,
except for my Johnson and his bon-bons.

...

165

My GMAT study guide came in. i put in another copyright registration request.

my internet connection really sucks out here in Haslet right now. it's windy. not sure if that has anything to do with it.

i tried to put in a limit order on robinhood that didnt post.

i still dont always know what exactly to do next. i havent had any. sort of. well. strange thoughts recently. but i have just been sort of upset with a lot of things.

...

166

I'm digging in to my GMAT book, the first section is Quantitative, and that was the section that I did poorly on the first time I took the exam.

I want to be in a program for the Fall Semester of 2021.

Budgeting, always a strange thing.

I wonder if I will be able to pay in-state tuition.

I hope that I will. Strange.

Strange stuff. I issued transfers from my Robinhood account to my checking accounts, with the intention of sending the money to my Interactive Brokers accounts.

i want to just simplify everything in my portfolios for the time being. id like to do something more creative or thoughtful but. this is a nightmare. 

The section that I'm working on is going over square roots, now. I have never learned how to figure out square roots before. Stupid.

Math Review: Arithmetic 

The only thing I want to say about
   square roots is: fuck this ridiculous crap,
   I know that calculators figure out
   this shit in microseconds, but my map

of divisors and quotients spans across
   the decades, X marks the fuck this answer,
   and lick my balls you lousy fucking hoss!
   Most of the time I can't figure out where

I'm going with this, again, why? I know
   that lots of things just never lead somewhere:
   A fantastic date never yields a blow,
   Netflix and Chill isn't always: "in there."

I can't even believe I'm doing this,
   and GMAT math doesn't need a math Wiz.
   Well, everything in life is hit or miss.

I don't have to head to work until 9. Yesterday, when I talked to some people at work, there was some confusion about the text message, I interpreted it as a call for extra hands to come into work, and others suggested it was just for people already coming in to work, meaning, it only applied to already scheduled shifts. Somethings don't always mean the same thing to different people. Strange.

im parked outside of work. i reinstalled the dating apps, but, they never work.

still trying to figure out square roots.

i found a video on long division for square roots that finally makes sense to me. thank god. ill try it when i get home tomorrow. thank god.

reading love horoscopes. well. i think I'll only ever get encouragement.

the other day i took a wrong turn while trying to find an air pump for my tires. turns out my tires were find. because of road work i had to take a detour through some strange neighborhood. probably in fort worth. Dallas comes after Arlington.

good lord. i have this nagging need for. you know what. it's an annoying need to have. but what would life be like if sexual desire didn't exist. easier i think.

getting involved with the wrong person is a nightmare. it really is.

for some reason. i haven't gotten. well. i haven't had too many nightmares recently. im sure im occasionally a nightmare too. well.

im in a shitty mood.

i don't know. if i should take a more consistent approach to finding. someone to date or what.

...

167

I came home from work at around 9 AM, slept until 2 PM, and then ran a few errands: ate lunch, checked my mail, inflated my tires. There was an issue with the tire inflation gauge the last time I inflated my tires, and I guess I didn't fill them evenly, it was also really dark, so I couldn't read the PSI meter.

Well, at some point my phone cracked, it was already cracked, but it seems to have become even more cracked than it was before, so I swapped out my old, cracked phone, for an un-cracked phone.

I saw the girl from the Conoco station the other day, I updated here about my Copyright registration activities. She didn't really say much, but I was excited to see her, and I was really animated about the whole thing. I don't remember if she responded in anyway or not, the only reaction that I was able to glean from her was that she seemed amused that I was so animated.

Square Root Struggles

The only thing I want to say about
square roots is: fuck this ridiculous crap,
I know that calculators figure out
this shit in microseconds, but my map

of divisors and quotients sprawls across
the decades, X marks the -- fuck this answer!
and lick my balls you lousy fucking hoss!
Most of the time I can't figure out where

I'm going with this shit and why? I know
that lots of things just never lead somewhere:
A fantastic date never yields a blow,
Netflix and Chill isn't always: "in there."

I can't even believe I'm doing this,
and GMAT math doesn't need a math Wiz.
Well, everything in life is hit or miss.

The Free Drink

I went to Wendy's to get a soda
because I was thirsty as hell. I asked
for the value soft drink for my cola
and the cashier gave it to me free. Tasked

with ringing customers up and flipping
burgers, the cashier must have thought: "fuck it."
A lady at a table is dipping
nuggets into a gigantic bucket

of barbecue sauce, eating a triple,
and drinking a large soda and she smells
like hot grease: the scent of which will ripple
through my body up until my mouth swells

with wet saliva, and with this I plea
that the fries and burgers too should be free.

The Square Root Catharsis

I think that I finally figured out
how to compute square roots for integers,
and it is simple enough that a lout
like me can do it properly, first, stir

the pot of boiling water, second,
take the ginger roots and carrots and cut
them into cubes, or squares, I'd recommend
squares, which are much easier on the gut

and, having fewer total calories,
don't add much heft to the curves of your ass,
or much droop to the sag of your titties,
and much less fiber, so you pass less gas.

Serious, you won't even need Beano,
maybe you'll need pink, but not the Pepto.

Raisins

For breakfast we had raisins in oatmeal
and a cup of coffee that was too dark
the meal was okay, but it did not feel
like it was enough, not hitting the mark.

For lunch we went to Jack in the Box where
I had eight tacos and a Jumbo Jack
The meal was way too fucking much I swear,
I think I should ask for my money back.

For dinner we had chow mein and fried rice:
the chow mein had too many vegetables
and the glass of water had too much ice.
Hell, I would have preferred weed edibles.

That is everything I ate for today,
I'd eat even more if I had my way.

At the Gym

I don't know what it is.
  Things don't feel right.
Something is wrong.
    I don't know what it is.
It's like. I don't know if this is
         Real or not. I don't know if
     I'm making the right decision.
Everything is on impulse.
    Be patient. Never do anything
        In a state of panic. Am I in a state of
    Panic? No idea. I might be.

The Truth about Pimping

  I know for a fact that
   It is not easy being
   a pimp.

for one thing, a pimp must
   always be in uniform

and the trappings of a pimp,
   and must always bear the
  regalia of a pimp.

A Basket Deficit

       Here is the thing, suppose
     that you sold more 
 baskets than you made, what 
    would you do? you would have to 
   start buying baskets because 
   you would be facing a basket deficit!

Observations from McDonald's

A white girl in a black track suit
eats a Big Mac like it's a massive
Sausage 
                     McMuffin

The Mexican girl at the counter
has massive 
                 knockers that
are bigger than any Chicken 
                      McNuggets 

and that I have ever had the pleasure
of knocking 
                      back after
  a hard 
               day's work

covered in the sweetest and sourest sauce
            that I can think of 

out in the parking lot a moderately
attractive woman with three babies
and exactly two tits smiles at me
as though she is fiending to have
a fourth. May the forth be nine months
away from this afternoon.

Square Root Struggles

The only thing I want to say about
square roots is: fuck this ridiculous crap,
I know that calculators figure out
this shit in microseconds, but my map

of divisors and quotients spans across
the decades, X marks the -- fuck this answer!
and lick my balls you lousy fucking hoss!
Most of the time I can't figure out where

I'm going with this shit and why? I know
that lots of things just never lead somewhere:
A fantastic date never yields a blow,
Netflix and Chill isn't always: "in there."

I can't even believe I'm doing this,
and GMAT math doesn't need a math Wiz.
Well, everything in life is hit or miss.

Math Review: Arithmetic 

The only thing I want to say about
   square roots is: fuck this ridiculous crap,
   I know that calculators figure out
   this shit in microseconds, but my map

of divisors and quotients spans across
   the decades, X marks the fuck this answer,
   and lick my balls you lousy fucking hoss!
   Most of the time I can't figure out where

I'm going with this, again, why? I know
   that lots of things just never lead somewhere:
   A fantastic date never yields a blow,
   Netflix and Chill isn't always: "in there."

I can't even believe I'm doing this,
   and GMAT math doesn't need a math Wiz.
   Well, everything in life is hit or miss.

...

168

I want to say that I actually didn't spend a whole lot of time studying today. Lament. I was kind of confused for a while, but then I had a small breakthrough figuring out how long division with square roots works.

I'm at seven-eleven. I had 3 bowls of ramen noodles. The larger bowls, not the cups.

I have to stay away from the magic 8 ball, I keep asking questions about -text deleted- and I'm sure this is just going to further my descent into madness. Honestly, the magic 8 ball encourages me more than it should.

I'm kind of in a sad mood right now.

My horoscope for the 24th said I was on the wrong track, and I've took steps to remedy it, and I should see results today? Like what the fuck should I be looking out for? What fucking results?

...

169

I set my alarm to ring 7 hours after arriving home. I figured I could put a cap on how much I sleep on any given day, and, I figured this allows me to focus on putting a cap on how much I sleep, rather than maxing out how much I sleep and setting my alarm with the intention of waking up with just enough time to get my personal tasks done.

I used to set up my alarms for me to wake up with just enough time to get to work, plus whatever time I thought I might need to accomplish my personal tasks and errands.

I think that I finally figured out how to work long division square root problems, but I'm not sure how useful this process is. I guess as I take practice tests it will become apparent what process for finding square roots is the optimal one.

Fuck, and here is another one, the standard fucking deviation. Fucking, fuck this! Piece of shit standard Deviations bullshit. Fuck you. Standard fucking deviation.

There are times when there is something I just don't want to do, but I know that I have to just do it. I don't want to do this standard deviation crap. I have to fucking do it. I fucking hate it. Jesus. and School, I'm already irritated.

I almost get the feeling that some of my antics will kind of preclude me from certain opportunities in life

I'm going to take Job Search off of my list of things to do, I have to track down old resumes, so I may come across job postings out there on the internet.

I have to get the Reflections Series Registration Completed. I have to, by the end of the week. That's going to be a firm goal. Have to get it done. I want to move on from that, and work on something else.

Well, that was easier than I thought, I was able to find the standard deviation by hand, basically, I had to figure out the square root of 68/5, or the square root of 13.6, and this was doable because I was working on that square root horse shit for a while. I don't know why I was dreading this process so much. Turns out it was easy.

Good lord, this is a real slog. This next section isn't something that is difficult, but it is, fucking laborious. I'm going to put this aside for a while.

And, I'm starting to see why I had difficulty getting things together for the GMAT last time, especially the quantitative section, the quantitative section isn't something that is easy to study for while working out on the treadmill.

...

170

If I hope for anything, it's that the work day goes by quickly. Just get done with it. Be over as soon as it starts. Boredom is a real killer, being bored is the worst, well, not as bad as being sad.

...

171

That was annoying. 
Well, I really don't want
to go into details, but I think
that I will anyway.

Last night I was browsing 
OK Cupid, like I've been doing
for the last few days,

and I really thought I would
be getting some action, but I
am totally not getting any 
action.

I switched my preference from
monogamous to non-monogamous,
but it really hasn't changed 
my success 
rate or anything.

The other night I asked a woman out,
and she responded, then I said we should
meet up, and then she asked for 
clarification if I wanted a date, or a booty call.

Well, I figured I wouldn't dance around the 
issued, and, just said I wanted a booty call,
I really thought I'd be getting some tail this
morning, well, No Tail!

She blocked me on OK Cupid, 
and then, when
I got home, a neighbor I don't 
see very often was
hanging out in front of the 
building, we chatted
for a while, and then I asked 
her if she was living
with anyone, I hardly see her 
around, but I'm
sure it's mostly because I 
sleep during the day, and
work nights. She said no, 
so I asked her out,
and she said she shouldn't 
because she and
her husband are separated.

I told her we should date 
anyway, to make him 
jealous, I told her to stop 
by when she came back
later, but she never did, or 
if she did, I wasn't awake
to answer the door, I slept 
until maybe 3:00 PM
today.

I went over to her apartment 
and knocked on the door,
she didn't answer. I went 
over again later in the
day, and the same thing, 
no answer. I don't know, 
I guess that's the way it 
goes sometimes.

I didn't get a chance to study for my GMAT exam today, but I will do a little bit in a few minutes, the thing I want to work on is using number sets. Is dealing with number sets using tables. This seems like it would make the calculations that I have to perform a much quicker process, but doing this shouldn't take a hell of a lot of time to figure out, so I don't know why I'm delaying. I'm tired, I have to get used to being tired sometimes.

I just took a vitamin and a caffeine pill, I've been staying away from energy drinks and caffeine pills for a while, but I realized that, most fucking people drink coffee in the morning, so fuck it, I took one, I don't know how long it will take to kick in, or how long it will last. The other night I had an energy drink, they are fucking expensive.

There is a class at work that I signed up to take, I have to leave for work an hour earlier than I usually do, but whatever, I think that I will still have enough time to do a little bit of studying for my GMAT exam, just enough to work on what I wanted to work on. I also signed up for an extra shift at work

I saw a hit for a post regarding the Blue Box Recipient, it was about the last time I heard from her. It was back in January 2019. Fucking. Ages ago, and I remember the email, and I remember my response.

I don't know how this recent Blue Box Situation got started. I don't know what made me think of her, and think that I was somehow going to, accomplish something by, doing whatever I did.

Whatever set off the Blue Box Ordeal, I would think that it happened in May, 2020. I guess I could look at my Reflections posts from that time, but, really, the Blue Box Ordeal is something I want to keep somewhere in the back of my mind for the time being. I haven't had too many obtrusive thoughts about the Blue Box Recipient. 

But there were a few things that did make me think of her, one was this article series on Medium, the second was when I heard that the Girl at the Conoco Station was leaving, or transferring to another location.

When I was told that the Girl at the Conoco Station was transferring, I made a point of seeming super distraught, but it was a kind of Shakespearian Performance that I think anyone who saw me would realize I was being Histrionic in my behavior, I said that she was the most beautiful woman in Tarrant County, and that her departure was the most depressing thing to happen to me in the last two months. 

The guy I was talking to said she was good looking, but not that great, and then I made a point of taking offence of that remark, stating that calling her merely good looking, or above average simply did not do Justice to the Girl at the Conoco Station, and that the American Way is Justice for All, and to deny the Girl at the Conoco Station justice, was simply the greatest injustice to occur in Tarrant County History.

This made me think of of the Blue Box Recipient because, on the drive home that day an image of the Blue Box Recipient being really upset with me flashed through my mind, it was the strangest thing ever.

The other thing was that there was someone I came across the other day with Chestnut hair and Hazel eyes. She was only, you know, slightly taller than me, still taller than me, but only slightly taller than me. She also had the same fabulous booty as the Blue Box Recipient, only, a much smaller version of the same fabulous booty. At some point she was talking to my partner in crime, and when she pulled her mask down to revel her lips as she spoke, it almost felt flirtatious. 

I may want to subscribe to a Magazine, newspaper, newsletter, or blog or something. I usually just read whatever free articles are available, or whatever is linked on my Robinhood account, Medium, Ladders, a few other free ones.

Lapham's Quarterly, Bloomberg Magazine, the Harvard Business Review, the Paris Review, Harper's Magazine, the Atlantic, the New Yorker, are a few that I may consider, as well as Medium. 

I really want to order at least one Case Study from the Harvard Business School, just for fun. There was this issue from Bloomberg Magazine that I wanted to buy. I don't have a whole-hell-of-a-lot of time to read things, and if I'm going to spend any time reading things, it might as well be for my GMAT Exam.

A payment from chase to my Citibank credit card finally arrived.

I have to think. I need to look into my HSA at work once it's active. There are 10 pay period left this year.

I throw a few bucks here and there into my Robinhood account. I think I'm going to do multiples of 10 only, going forward. To make it easier to count.

...

172

Waiting for work to start. It isn't clear to me. Something isn't clear to me about my timecard and I think I'll ask about it.

I still wonder. Sometimes.

I didn't study at all today for my exam. I slept most of the day. I had a strange phone call earlier in the morning. I answered, and then went back to sleep.

I don't even know. Really. I don't. I don't know if I really feel like saying what's on my mind.

Let's call her the college girl. I guess most young women are in college, but that's really the best name I can think of right now. So. I asked her out a few times, and usually she just says that she's busy. She seemed to kind of want to have a conversation today, when we ran into each other, but I really didn't interact more that offering a polite nod and a hello.

I just really didn't have the energy, and, I'm kind of upset that she is never available. I know that it's important not to have that kind of attitude. I know that it's important not to be upset that she isn't available. Or too busy, I guess. I don't know what to do.

Like, why do I even still bother? This is useless, it feels. It feels useless. I don't know why I even try. Useless.
Silly . Fortune cookies.

The fortune cookie said that a pleasant experience is ahead, and not to pass it up. I thought that this might refer to a dating opportunity of some sort, but obviously I have no idea what specific course I need to take to enjoy the pleasant experience. I went over to my neighbors apartment and knocked on her door, like last time, she didn't answer. So, I don't really know what to do there.

I haven't had any additional copyright registration requests go through, they are both still just sitting there. 

I basically have 2 days left before my next shift at work. There is always the possibility that somehow I will get an extra shift offered, but I wouldn't exactly count on it. So, this is more or less a block of time to work on my GMAT and my copyright registrations project. 

I want to get the Reflections series collected, so that I can submit them to the Copyright Office for registration, and I think that I might focus on this for the remainder of tonight.
It's something that I might as well get done as soon as possible.

Just thinking about applying for graduate school. I didn't look deeply into it the last time I looked into it, but. and I haven't looked into it recently. but I'm getting that I have to write a Statement of Purpose or a Statement of Intent.

Yeah. So, Happened again. Reading my old posts, I see that I filed for unemployment, and the claim was denied, and earlier today I went to my mailbox and saw that my most recent unemployment claim was denied.

I'm really not voting for any kind of social welfare policies that I don't benefit from. This is irritating. I'm really fucking furious about it. It's like, they collect all these taxes, but never even pay out when it's due, and, fucking, employers abuse things like constructive termination to avoid paying unemployment insurance.

I'm going to keep appealing until this gets paid out. It's important to take a stand against something. It really is. and this is the stand that I'm going to take for now. Silly bullshit.

Oh my god. Putting all these posts together is exhausting, and I'm not sure if my brain is melting or not, I don't know if this is more fatiguing that I really think. Maybe I've only been doing this for an hour, Maybe I've been doing it for an hour, or just a short time.

I placed some fractional share orders. and then updated my limit order that I keep outstanding. So I usually keep a limit order in place on an index ETF, I alternate between different ones, but I cancelled it, and then just put in a few market orders for fractional shares.

I spent maybe, another hour or so collecting my Reflections Series. I'm close to 20 percent complete with getting all of these together. There are posts that are unrelated to the reflections series that I'm collecting and putting in the Reflections series. So, It is taking longer than I really want it to.

My Google Drive is pretty much cleaned out. I don't really want to use it too much to hold files in, I think that I just want to use it as a staging area to move files from device to device, not as a permanent storage area. It's honestly less expensive to use a physical drive than to use Google Drive, so, what this suggests is that I should use a physical drive to store my files.

I guess I just spent another 45 minutes on the Reflections from Chestnut Street project. I am about 25 percent done. some of these are posts that I wrote on social media sites, some are poetry readings, and I did find the exact post where I change the name of my blog from Prospectus Media Group to Chestnut and Hazel.

I don't know if I mentioned this before, but I did get my Copyright Registration Certificate from the Copyright Office.
I'm listening to a history podcast. I'm just letting the audio files play on shuffle.

best of all you remind me 350 / 1137 of the way
things used to taste when the flavor of everything
was better and now things are rotten.

So I am about 30 percent complete with the Reflections from Chestnut Street project. Has another hour elapsed or what? 350 posts saved, out of a total of 1137 posts from the whole series.

There are fewer pay periods next month as opposed to this month, and it isn't clear if I will be making as much next month compared to this month. Should I worry about this? Should I worry about this? Is this something that I should really be worrying about? Of course I should worry about it, but maybe, I shouldn't freak out about it, it's more a thing about trying to figure out. Trying to plan things.

Should I relax for a short time? and then get back into it? Fucking, there are always things that are things to do. There are always things that can be done, there are always things to do.

Maybe the pleasant experience that I have to look forward to is Graduate School. This is useless it feels. It really feels useless sometimes.

Fucking really tired. Really fucking tired, well, maybe, maybe not. I have no idea. I have no idea if I'm feeling tired or fatigued or just mentally drained, or bored. Am I Bored? That is something I have no idea. Really. I have no idea.

...

173

So, here I am. I worked on my laundry, and the Reflections from Chestnut Street series, or at least, getting them all together. I noticed that I was posting my updates on 172 Sanford Street, but that post was originally created on 10/20/2020, and it makes more sense to have a separate post for today, the 21st.

I don't have a whole hell of a lot of time remaining in the day, and maybe I'll create another post in just a few hours, I don't know, maybe I'll forget and make the same error yet again, but it isn't a huge error, and it really doesn't matter a whole hell of a lot.

I did review one post from about a year ago, or over a year ago. It mentions how I last spoke to my Aunt Liway, and I remember that she discouraged me somewhat against going to graduate school. She basically pointed out that I didn't do much with my bachelor's degree, and that there probably isn't much that I would do with a master's degree, so, she reasoned, what's the point.

There are a few major employers in the Arlington area that might work out for me. Many of them are in an industrial setting, still. I don't know how I would manage two jobs. I'm somewhat tired all the time.

There are fractions of a brain and 538 / 1137 you
can tell that there are new people.

I am currently 47 percent complete with the Reflections from Chestnut Street series. Today is a new day, and I can now start a new post, or, well, I guess I can start a new post whenever I feel like creating  a new post, so, yeah, I can make a new post, or I can decide not to post a new post, it's all up to me, but it is a new day, and I can create a new post if I feel like creating a new post.

That's a pretty decent amount of completion, but really, the whole project is just a matter of cutting and pasting the posts from the blog and into a text file, it may be that there is a quicker way of doing this, and, maybe I should explore that.

Maybe I should take a short nap, and then get back to working on this project. The Reflections from Chestnut Street Project. I want to get it out of the way, I really do, but, I don't know when it would be prudent to go ahead and file a request for copyright registration on this collection of posts.

A kind of sting of unhappiness. A frown on my face. My cheeks are heavy. My eyes are heavy. Am I unhappy? or is this something else? is this something else? Is this Something Else? or what? why am I unhappy right now? is this something else and am I unhappy and why do I feel somewhat sad right now? can you tell me what you are feeling right now? and is it similar to what I am feeling right now? do feeling even exist.

I napped for about 8 hours, and now I'm back to working on the Reflections series.

Oh, are all your paintings posted on your Facebook business page, or your personal page. I only come across your paintings sporadically, the one I really liked was the red one, I would have kept the painting just the red background with the black outline of the face, but I think it looks great the way you did it. I think the face was colored in.

These things are what you want
when you want nothing else and
nothing other than what you want
and who you are doing when the
things that you want are less
than the other things that you need.

Right now I am listening to Bjork
and really enjoying it, right now
the song that is being played is
Pagan Poetry, this is the one with
the video of Bjork and her husband
fucking.

I can't believe that I sent my only
copies of my poems to the Paris
Review. A manuscript means that
it is handwritten, right?

I bought a multi-pack of drain cleaner and poured all the
bottles down the drain. I think that this should do it, but
I can't be sure. I want clean drains more than anything in
life, even more than world peace. I think that the next
Miss America or Miss Universe should be picked on the
basis of whether or not she likes clean drains.

When people become obsessed with the next person to
release a sex-tape, we will acquire the rights to sell the
sex-tape in nations abroad. People will pay a fortune to
us to see it, and we will be super rich. The development
of the wealth of a country is entirely dependent on the
quality of it's sex tapes, which should include all the nastiest
acts that can be performed.

The rain won't let up, it's like a jungle
outside, a rain forest with tons of rain,
I'm at a taco shop where I bungle
the poetry writing process, my brain

putting together words and rhymes, phrases
and sentences that don't really go with
each other, it's not my fault, the day is
keeping us inside, my efforts one fifth

of what they would be if I were doing
this voluntarily, I am forcing
it, I'm bored and I think about mooning
the taqueria cashier and coursing

around the tables like a lunatic,
and contacting aliens with my Bic.

After all the bars I've gone to, and all
the drinks I've had, I can say that drinking
whiskey is like kissing a woman. Fall
into a shot of whiskey while thinking

about a woman who you'd love to kiss
and you'll find it a more than adequate
substitute for bringing your tongue to bliss.
Not very many people would equate

A shot of whiskey to a kiss because
they have never tried it: I recommend
that they do. Longing for a kiss can cause
mental distress that's very hard to mend:

It's been written about in all kinds of
insane lunatic poems about love.

Oh. There is one religion out there that basically requires its practitioners to study at the altar of the entrance exam. Or standardized test. Or whatever. That's fine. Not saying I tried it. But id like to keep my religious practices down to less than 40 thousand hours per week.
I don't want to commit death by standardized test.

The thing about entrance exams is this. My ethnicity or race or whatever requires exactly 40 thousand lifetimes to complete any given task.

destroy the interstate highway, buy a 4 x 4, and you will find that you are the only person on the road and you will have a much shorter commute. Or live with it. In both cases, where there is a will, there is a way.

The Job Situation
I have a job interview on Friday,
and I have to get some paperwork
ready. I have to do it. I have to get ready.

I saw the best. Licence. Plate. Ever.
KWD * 2017
It was a black truck. A big one. 
What if it was her husband?
I guess I'll have to do him one better 
and get a license plate that reads
KLY + KWD.
Man. I'm not even sure what he's going to 
pull next, but that was a good one.

I love a movement that’s willing to describe
the naked women you can see getting creamed
on Pornhub who themselves love a movement that’s
willing to describe the multiple orgasms they
can achieve by opening up to a complete
stranger. The sexual activity is governed by various
mechanical protocols including regular lubrication
and insertion of various members, especially
in a gangbang. There are water based lubricants.
There are oil based lubricants. There are synthetic
lubricants, which get good mileage, and in the
case of ten guy creampies, there are come
based lubricants, which are all natural but do
contain animal products, which are exploitative.

My urine is an atomic yellow
   and I have no idea how it got
   that way. I wonder what goes on below
   in my bladder: I've given in some thought
and concluded that someone must have slipped
   nuclear waste into my meals and snacks and
   drinks, my urine would be clear if I skipped
   a meal and starved as much as I could stand.
Or maybe I could assemble a team
   of surveillance experts and maybe track
   down this nefarious person and ream
   him or her, preferably her, and stack
her with charges of poisoning a man
   who wants to eat his food without brooding
   over violating a nuclear ban
   because of what's in his bladder brewing.

Harmony is whatever a green
shirted person likes to be,
and whatever a blue shirted
person thinks has a green shirt on.

Here is the thing, suppose
          that you sold more
baskets than you made, what
would you do? you would have to
        start buying baskets because
you would be facing a basket deficit!

The Mitsubishi Situation

I bought the car to get to work, then the company
closed down, and I no longer needed the car, but I
am stuck with the car payment. This is shitty. I kind
of want to pay the car off and then sell it. This is super
shitty. I'm not sure what the hell do to with it, I really
just need to get to work and back. I'm not sure what to
do about my insurance policy. I can probably get
something super cheap now that I am no longer working
for a Transportation Network Company. This is super shitty.

I fucking hate problem situations. Never get started
with a person with money problems. Their problems
eventually become your problems, and then your own
problems become an even bigger issue. I fucking hate
this shitty situation. I guess the best I can say is that
this was a hard ass learning lesson. Super fucking shitty.

This was so fucking super fucking dumb. I don't know
what the fuck to do. I think that I have to keep looking
for work while I wait. My step-mom has something
lined up for me, but I have to anticipate that it will not
work out for me. I have to think about my application
being decline, or me not being found a right fit for the
position.

I'm extremely tired. And I'm really starting to hate everything. Like really bad. I really want to go into Kansas City, and I'm sure it wouldn't be a huge deal, but I can wait, and I guess I'll just wait until this is all over.

it seems like sometimes
i have to cut lines
when i copy and paste
something from
another source.

life if i had a block of
text in a .docx file or
something. this is stupid.
really fucking dumb.

...

174

where these are and where they 670 / 1137 have
been is where they will go at a fraction
at the speed of the oranges.

So about 60 percent complete with the Reflections from Chestnut Street Series. I almost have this done. I wonder if I'm going to go and get something to eat. I mean. I know that I'm in control of whether or not I go out to eat, but what I mean is, I'm not sure if I'm going to go later and eat.

It was actually a hell of a lot of orders that went through. I've been wanting to round out those fractional share holdings for a while now, and I also kind of want to own more shares in individual companies as opposed to strictly holding exchange traded funds, but this means that I have to be more active with watching what I hold. I'm wondering. Well. I think that I'll keep my holdings in exchange traded funds to around 85 percent of my portfolio, and the remainder in individual stocks. I'm currently at 82 percent, this is down from around 87 percent earlier.

Reading the Reflections from Chestnut Street. I realize that I had some of the same questions that I have now. Many of the same struggles and problems.

I'm going to go ahead and put the Reflections series, and working on this project, aside for the time being. I'll continue with it later.

I was able to find a copy of an older resume. I uploaded it here to my blog. I don't know exactly what I want to do. Really. I'm feeling a little lost. I'm upset, and a little sad, a little angry. A little frustrated. I've really just been going with a work history format.

I want to send her a text message, and see if she is free to hang out, but I'm really tired of just being told that she isn't available. Why bother?

In general, this whole thing stresses me out. It really does. Not just this particular situation, but dating in general.

Maybe the answer is just not to bother doing anything like that period. Like really. This is a nightmare. Unbelievable nightmare.

I'm irritated and I just don't want to think about it. I just don't want to bother. I really don't. Fucking dumb. Really dumb. This is really annoying.

...

175

I'm having a little bit of a hard time getting around to digging in to my exam guide, and studying. I'm just sort of vegetating listening to a World War 2 podcast. I might want to change it to something else. I don't know what it is. I have to figure out the voting stuff. Voting. Jesus.

Just annoying and irritated. Why should I spend so much of my time writing and sulking about how everything is just really fucking shitty. Maybe it's not really all shitty and maybe I'm just in a bad fucking mood.

So that's what my Robinhood portfolio looks like. It doesn't seem like it has changed much. It's still pretty much the same fucking thing that it has always been. I don't know if I really want to do anything to make it more exciting or anything. There might be something that I want to do, and that something is, maybe not moving things around, but I don't know, buying some other stuff.

So the total amount of money that I put into my Robinhood account was 550 this month, 670 total to my investment accounts, excluding my 401 K, and I would guess that I put around 120 into my 401 K, or 150. I really can't put anything else into these accounts for the remainder of the month. This is kind of bad. I don't know what happened here. If I put in 1000 just into my Robinhood account last month, why is it so much lower this month? I have no idea. Just watch my expenses is what I need to do. Well. The copyrighting stuff ate some of that money, but not a huge amount.

Let's hope for a better month next month. Just watch my expenses. Watch them. There was the GMAT book, that was 60 bucks. Is there anything that I can do to push this number up? I have no idea. I don't have anything that I can sell easily. A hell of a lot of whiskey. How do I get rid of it? How do I turn it back into cash? and what was I thinking, spending all that money on Whiskey?

My transfers to my Interactive Brokers account was also higher for September than they were for October. I want to check something else out, there is the possibility that I've been diverting more money to paying down my credit cards as opposed to investing.

Okay, so here is what I am seeing, total liabilities increased from August to September by 1000 dollars, but from September to October, they have stayed roughly the same. This seems to mean that I'm paying things down, and that's where the drag on my contributions to my investment accounts lags. I can't invest as much if I'm reducing debt, cash can't be in two places at the same time, but paying down debt is it's own kind of investment.

The month isn't over, and I need to remember that.

I want to practice calculating the standard deviation, and performing square root calculations.

I updated my Citibank Financial Tools calculator, there were a few investment accounts that had balances in them that I had not removed from the calculations, and it was easier to do than I thought. I also added my car note or car loan to the calculations, which makes my progress seem a whole lot less sexy.

A lot of these IPO stocks are just ETFs. Funny shit.

...

176

I don't have anything to do right now, other than study, and for some reason I'm not doing that.

I don't know what to do. I'm feeling really aimless right now. I hiked several long term tasks down the line to a later date. So right now, I'm not sure there really is anything for me to do. Or at least, I don't think that there is anything for me to do, or I don't feel like there is anything for me to do.

I feel like a total fucking idiot. Still, like what the fuck am I doing here in fucking, this strange place, really. Yeah, I really have no idea. Stick around. Maybe move around in Texas.
I don't want to change my plan, but I am genuinely lost in life. Like really bad.

I'm completing this FAFSA crap again. This is so fucking. I'm so god damned old. Jesus. School. What am I doing.
I completed my FAFSA form. I guess that was easy.

So why should I take the GMAT again? well. It's not a gigantic expense. It's a lot of money, but I have plenty of time to make 300 bucks. That should be easy, and, the hope is that I get a higher score, and, as a result, might be able to access better grants or student aid or something, but that's it.

Still, though, what am I doing here in Texas? I hope that this involves some kind of, like, destiny and fate bull shit, fucking dumb. Still, sometimes I think that it would have been better to stay in Missouri, even if only moving from Cameron to Kansas City. I should have done it. I don't know though. Maybe that kind of thing wouldn't have worked out.

Maybe there really is something here for me. Some kind of life, some kind of future. Maybe there really is a pleasant experience ahead.

I don't think that I'm really going to do anything further with the unemployment claim, so I'll go ahead and take that off my list, but I am really upset that it was not awarded.

It is kind of nice having more free time this week than during previous weeks, so maybe I shouldn't worry too much about not having a shit ton of hours on my paycheck.

...

177

I was hungry, but rather than going to Jack in the Box, I went to 7-11, and ordered a few cup of instant noodles, a few sliders, and cookies. Not a good idea, it was more than I really wanted to eat. Yeah, it was a bad idea. Now I'm a little tired from all that junk food.

I was looking at reader hits for past posts and I came across this poem of mine that I really liked:

I love a movement that’s willing to describe
the naked women you can see getting creamed
on Porn-hub who themselves love a movement that’s
willing to describe the multiple orgasms they
can achieve by opening up to a complete
stranger. The sexual activity is governed by various
mechanical protocols including regular lubrication
and insertion of various members, especially
in a gang-bang. There are water based lubricants.
There are oil based lubricants. There are synthetic
lubricants, which get good mileage, and in the
case of ten guy cream-pies, there are come
based lubricants, which are all natural but do
contain animal products, which are exploitative.

The strawberry blonde gives me a hard-on
the graham crackers and strawberries and cream:
a single taste and I'm completely gone
to a different universe where I scream
for ice cream and other icy pleasures.
Whenever I go I order the large
size because it's crumbs and other treasures
make the delightful ice cream worth the charge.
I'm diabetic and I shouldn't eat
here because my blood sugars get real high,
so I do it as a once a month treat:
this allows me to live and also die
at the same time. Spoil yourself a little,
life is short, and thankless, hard, and brittle

After all the bars I've gone to, and all
the drinks I've had, I can say that drinking
whiskey is like kissing a woman. Fall
into a shot of whiskey while thinking

about a woman who you'd love to kiss
and you'll find it a more than adequate
substitute for bringing your tongue to bliss.
Not very many people would equate

A shot of whiskey to a kiss because
they have never tried it: I recommend
that they do. Longing for a kiss can cause
mental distress that's very hard to mend:

It's been written about in all kinds of
insane lunatic poems about love.

I thought about you for the better part
of the morning, from when I woke up till
hours later when my day had it's start.

Curled up in a ball, motionless and still,
I think of us working in the same room,
you at my left, I turn, and have my fill

of the joy of admiring you zoom
in on your laptop, when your desktop is
right there in front of you. My pupils bloom

and I turn away so you don't notice this
transformation into this kind of trance
that I find myself in. I hear the hiss

of hot matter leaving my brain. Let's dance!
The next time we see each other! My heart
will liquefy when you give me the chance!

My urine is an atomic yellow
and I have no idea how it got
that way. I wonder what goes on below
in my bladder: I've given in some thought

and concluded that someone must have slipped
nuclear waste into my meals and snacks and
drinks, my urine would be clear if I skipped
a meal and starved as much as I could stand.

Or maybe I could assemble a team
of surveillance experts and maybe track
down this nefarious person and ream
him or her, preferably her, and stack

her with charges of poisoning a man
who wants to eat his food without brooding
over violating a nuclear ban
because of what's in his bladder brewing.

I bought a multi-pack of drain cleaner and poured all the
bottles down the drain. I think that this should do it, but
I can't be sure. I want clean drains more than anything in
life, even more than world peace. I think that the next
Miss America or Miss Universe should be picked on the
basis of whether or not she likes clean drains.

When people become obsessed with the next person to
release a sex-tape, we will acquire the rights to sell the
sex-tape in nations abroad. People will pay a fortune to
us to see it, and we will be super rich. The development
of the wealth of a country is entirely dependent on the
quality of it's sex tapes, which should include all the nastiest
acts that can be performed.

Melody

Harmony is whatever
a green shirted person
likes to be, and

whatever a
blue shirted person
thinks has a green shirt on.

Scotland and Ireland

Are you from the Republic of Ireland 
or Northern Ireland?

Well, that just goes to show where 
you stand on the whole issue.

Do you prefer Scotch Whisky or
Irish Whisky?

Irish 
Whisky

Well, where do you stand on the
issue of Filipino Whisky?

...

178

It was really hot yesterday, nearly the whole day, and I was sweating. Then this morning, there was a storm, and the temperature cooled down.

I'm plodding through my GMAT study guide. The quantitative section is different, I can't just read through this section. There are areas where I have to actually get down and write things down and draw things, and this takes more time than just reading and letting things soak in.

I transferred some money out of my Robinhood account, only to transfer almost the same amount of money back in. There was an issue with how I've been managing my spreadsheet, so I had to fix that issue, and I think that it is more or less fixed.

So this month I transferred a total of 650 dollars to my Robinhood account, and this refers to the total amount of cash that has gone in, or, the net amount of cash that has gone in. I transferred about 710 out of the account during the month, and 1360 into the account during the month. I made a transfer of 11 dollars into the account right now just to make it a nice round number.

So this is less than the month before, less than the month of September, but I guess that's okay. I think overall I should be doing okay because I do have money going into my investments via my 401 K and HSA accounts with my work.

I had a blog called Napkeeno Poetry, Jesus, that's best name for a blog ever.

I have concluded something, it would be better to hurry up and take my GMAT, and get my applications out there, so that I can have a better idea about what to do about a second job.

Here is the thing, as long as the graduate school idea is up in the air, so is the whole thing about getting a second job. If I have a definite start date for Graduate school, then I can figure out what kind of second job I should be looking for. 

There were all these ideas in my head about waiting until I could transfer my night job, but I could probably plan better if things are more settled in terms of school.

Right now I'm working on getting my Reflections from Chestnut Street series all together. Some of the poems I missed here, and I'm reading them, and many of them are fucking lame and strange and weird, and Jesus, I don't even want to read many of them.

Cupid's Dilemma 

...

179

I worked on my Reflections from Chestnut Street Series, and, I really wanted to complete collecting all of them, but I really am tired of working on that. So, for now I'm just going to put it aside, and worry about completing it later.

I watched a few geometry videos, but not all of them were relevant to the GMAT Section that I am working on.

I'm maybe 200 posts away from completing the Reflections from Chestnut Street series. I came across a Meditations series that was maybe 50 or so posts. I think that I will put the indefinite hiatus series and innocuous post series with the Reflections from Chestnut Street series. There are also 2 series of posts that I have that precede the Reflections from Chestnut Street series that I can shove in the file.

But I'm really all copied out with this transfer of posts to my text file. There had to have been a quicker way to have done this, to scrape all these posts and collect them.

I think that we may have gotten raises at work, which is kind of awesome. I hope that it's an awesome raise.

I sometimes think about how much easier it would be to move my Interactive Brokers funds into my Robinhood account, but I don't want all my funds in one place, even though it would be easier, the reason being that if there is an issue with one account, I'll have funds in the other account to rely on in the meantime.

I also have access to think through Interactive Brokers that I don't have access to through Robinhood, and so, I want that account to remain open. There is something that I may want to do, and that thing is sort of simplifying my Interactive Brokers portfolio in the meantime.

I need to reduce how much money I spend on food. I really do spend too much money on food, and I could stand to lose some weight. I should just go and buy groceries the way a normal person would. I guess I could go to Walmart or the Dollar Tree.

I really don't have anything in my Interactive Brokers account that I really want to liquidate. So I guess I'm going to leave it the way it is.

...

180

Jesus. I had sex on Friday morning, and, as much as it had fucking relaxed me, I have kind of been stressing out about it afterward. I haven't had sex in a fucking month, or, slightly more than a month, Mid-September was the last time before Friday morning, and I hate that this is so sporadic. I hate it.

There are people who say not to be so fixated on sex, and those are the assholes who have sex four-hundred times a day. Of course they're not fixated on it, not obsessed or worried about it, those assholes aren't any more worried about their next sexual encounter any more they they are worried about their next meal.

The hungrier a person is for something, the more a person is starving for something, the more a person wants it. You're not hungry, unless you're starving, and you're not really actually hungry, unless you're really actually  starving.

...

181

I slept for about 8 hours, and that's not too much sleep, I don't seem to have overslept. I almost feel like the more I sleep, the less energetic I am. I know people say this, people say that if you oversleep, you actually end up more tired than more refreshed.

It's cold, and I'm wearing my jacket. My workplace had given out sweaters, or hoodies, a few days ago. My last employer gave out track jackets, and, for some reason, I ripped them up when I left Missouri. I don't know why I did that. The last few months in Missouri, and the first few months in Texas were kind of full of odd and irrational behavior.

Jeans and T-shirts. I haven't worn this sort of outfit in years, but recently it's kind of become my default outfit, part of it was the heat of Texas, and, part of it is that, well, I don't really know. I don't know why I wore pants rather than jeans at my last warehouse job. I guess I went to Missouri broke, and never got around to buying jeans, and then when I thought about buying clothes again, I just bought whatever I bought before, and the jeans that I like cost about 3 or 4 times as much as the pants that I like.

I'm reading some of the posts that I have on my blog, and some of them are discussions that I've had on social media and elsewhere, and, sometimes I'm kind of a dick.

...

182

I get way too many emails that I really have no chance of ever getting through.

I placed an order for an options contract. This is the first time I have ever placed an options order, and this is the first time that I'm going to do something other than take a buy and hold approach to my investments. I almost don't even want to do it, but, I don't know. I kind of should, considering that

A lot of these posts are completely boneheaded, there are several posts detailing my interactions with other people on dating websites. I don't know what it was, but I was feeling obnoxious, so I guess I left obnoxious messages and posts and profile content. I guess I was using Facebook Dating, Ok Cupid, Plenty of Fish, and Tinder. I kind of had some success, but I've also had a decent amount of non-success.

OK Cupid, OKCupid Ok Cupid, I'm trying to make sure that it's styled correctly. 

I turned off my ceiling fan because it's really fucking cold here. I haven't been frozen, completely frozen, since I left Missouri. I remember my first few months in Missouri, and how it was so hard getting used to the freezing temperature there. I remember the drive from Las Vegas to Missouri, and how my windshield would ice over.

Because of my schedule, I could trade Monday - Friday. I should really look into it. I placed a few options orders tonight, and I really want to see where they end up. I want to see how this works.

...

183

I went to the Dollar Tree to get something to eat. I find that I spend about 15 bucks per day on food. I figure if I spend less than that, I win. So I bought 4 boxes of pop tarts and a bottle of soda. I ate 1 box of pop tarts, and I think I'm going to die.

So, I didn't get a chance to trade stock options yesterday. What caught my eye the other night was an option that had a break even point lower than the market price, and it was on an ETF that I would buy anyway.

My thought process was that I could buy the option, exercise the option, and sell whatever I didn't want, but this didn't happen, I didn't buy the option, and the planned out transactions never took place.

I'm about as hungry as a heifer,
but I'm on the strictest budget on Earth
spending forty bucks per week max, never
spending a penny more. For what it's worth

I used to spend about fifteen bucks per
day, gaunt and nearly starving at the weeks
end, but now I starve lightly to ensure
that I have money left over and cheeks

as plump as a well fed baby. Budgets
really suck, it would be nice to have all
the money in the world, lots of ducats
to spend on eating out and at the mall

or at the bar, getting bottle service,
but all that money would make me nervous.

I don't know what on
earth to do right now.
I really don't.
I bought a corn cob pipe
and several bags of pipe tobacco.

Very tired. I'm not sure if it is because work was very physical yesterday, or I didn't go to sleep on time. I stayed up an hour and a half later than I planned. I also have been drinking whiskey regularly. I don't know if this makes sense, but I've been eating eggs more often than usual, and I wonder if the cholesterol slows down the metabolism or something. Or maybe this is regular, maybe everyone is tired in the morning. Maybe I'm just not manic, and it feels different. Get up and go. The other possible reason I may be more tired than usual is that I haven't been consuming as much caffeine as I usually do. Since I don't have a car, I can't really go to the store and buy a weeks worth of soda bottles.

I love a movement that’s willing to describe
the naked women you can see getting creamed
on Pornhub who themselves love a movement that’s
willing to describe the multiple orgasms they
can achieve by opening up to a complete
stranger. The sexual activity is governed by various
mechanical protocols including regular lubrication
and insertion of various members, especially
in a gangbang. There are water based lubricants.
There are oil based lubricants. There are synthetic
lubricants, which get good mileage, and in the
case of ten guy creampies, there are come
based lubricants, which are all natural but do
contain animal products, which are exploitative.

I love a movement that’s willing to describe
the naked women you can see getting creamed
on Porn-hub who themselves love a movement that’s
willing to describe the multiple orgasms you
can achieve by opening up to a complete
stranger. The sexual activity is governed by various
mechanical protocols including regular lubrication
and insertion of various members, especially
in a gang-bang. There are water based lubricants.
There are oil based lubricants. There are synthetic
lubricants, which get good mileage, and in the
case of ten guy cream-pies, there are come
based lubricants, which are all natural but do
contain animal products, which are exploitative.

i think that i've cleaned up the main social media stuff that i need to. i have a few other things too, i'll get to them soon.

Contacting Aliens

The rain won't let up, it's like a jungle
outside, a rain forest with tons of rain,
I'm at a taco shop where I bungle
the poetry writing process, my brain

putting together words and rhymes, phrases
and sentences that don't really go with
each other, it's not my fault, the day is
keeping us inside, my efforts one fifth

of what they would be if I were doing
this voluntarily, I am forcing
it, I'm bored and I think about mooning
the taqueria cashier and coursing

around the tables like a lunatic,
and contacting aliens with my Bic.

The Taqueria Cashier

The rain won't let up, it's like a jungle
outside, a rain forest with tons of rain,
I'm at a taco shop where I bungle
the poetry writing process, my brain

putting together words and rhymes, phrases
and sentences that don't really go with
each other, it's not my fault, the day is
keeping us inside, my efforts one fifth

of what they would be if I were doing
this voluntarily, I am forcing
it, I'm bored and I think about mooning
the taqueria cashier and coursing

around the tables like a lunatic,
and contacting aliens with my Bic.

The Soap and the Bathtub Collide

Think of soap, and then think of a bathtub,
and think of them colliding in the air,
and then think of the sound of vapor rub
by Vicks, then think of how you'll stop and stare

at the collision of a bar of soap
and a bathtub, at the side of a road,
which will cause a traffic jam, think of rope
and then think of a suicidal toad

hanging at the end of the rope. It's dead.
and the only thing it hears is bubbles
from soap and the bathtub, only Fred
Flintstone is left who has stone age troubles

to deal with. The sound is so exquisite
which hearing before death is requisite.

The Year of the Ox

This is more or less a place to
keep things that I think are interesting
thoughts and things that are
interesting to think about. Sometimes
it is fun to think about interesting things,
sometimes it is interesting to think
of how a horse might be more
interesting than an ox and how a
ball can be more spherical than
an antelope. Do you agree?

It was special, or at least,
it was special, a special sale.
also known as a clearance sale.
Okay,
So you know what I want!
Knock it off!

So I do have some money that my dad
owes me from working on his other house,
and I might not need to sell any stocks in
order to cover my coming expenses, but I'm
not one-hundred percent sure that I will
get paid on-time to cover my expenses. I
might just have to take whatever job I can
find. I'm just not one-hundred percent sure
that the job my step-mom has lined up for
me will happen either. Nothing in life, I've
found, is ever for fucking sure. This fucking
sucks so fucking much. How many fucking
situations do I have to have on my hands?

...

184

I went over most of the posts that had reader hits in the last 24 hours, and I posted them, or most of them on the last Sanford Street post. Some of the posts were poems that were entirely fictional, and, are slowly becoming autobiographical, it's hilarious, like, I've actually noticed some of these things actually happening to me recently. Some of them I originally wrote as made up stuff, and then some of them just seem to be happening. So I'm going to write one, and this, let's see how this one works out.

They saw each other, and, she pleased to see him, and she wasn't mad,
and even though she may have been mad or irritated with him from time
to time, because he was a natural moron, she wasn't mad with him at this
particular moment in time,

and he was also pleased to see her, and he also wasn't upset, and although
he may have been unsure of himself often and, from time to time, upset
about his circumstances at this or that point in time in the past, in her 
presence, he was in a pleasant mood.

I'm in Haslet and it's super cold. I don't like running my engine, but, I don't want to fucking freeze.

Me encanta la mujerita
Que se llama mamacita
Tu nombre real esta Cristina
Y esta la reina de mi corazon 
Y tienes las labias como safron
Por ella solamente estoy un cabron
Y por ella escrito este cancion
Espero te encanta mis letras en pagina,
Espero te encanta mi pito en vagina

Me encanta la mujerita
Que se llama mamacita
Su nombre real esta Cristina
Ella la reina de mi corazon 
Porque tiene labios como safron
Por Ella solamente estoy un cabron
Y por Ella escrito este cancion
Espero te encanta mis letras en pagina,
Espero te encanta mi pito en la vagina

...

185

I did end up issuing a call option against some shares I have in my portfolio. I don't know how this is going to turn out.

So, I issued at $16 call option on my shares of PEY, I have 103 shares currently, before issuing the option, I had something like 70 shares. I bought up enough shares until I reached 100 shares, then I issued the call option on the 100 shares for a $10 credit.

My figuring was that I would sell these shares for $16 anyway, so I might as well get an extra $10 bucks for doing so.   

But here is where I had a few problems.

I had to buy up 30 shares of this ETF so that I had a total amount of shares required to issue the call option. Considering that the stock price is much lower than I originally paid on those additional shares, this was actually quite a bone headed decision.

My cost basis on this position has increased, and, that kind of sucks. Still, this is overall less than the strike price listed on the option, so if the option is exercised by the buyer, I still make a profit on my shares.

I'm locked into this position until 11/20, and there are two problems with this: First, I may need to sell those shares, although, that isn't totally true, the amount that I have tied up into this fund is fifteen percent of my portfolio, and if I need to sell anything because I need the money, I could always sell out of some other position. Second, this is about 1 month out that I'm tied into this position, and I was only paid 10 bucks for this, this works out to about eight percent annualized. I'm not sure that is a good deal, better than most deals, I guess, but not that great.

There is this idea in my mind that if I have 100 shares of PEY, or the funds to purchase PEY, why not use limit orders instead? My thinking on this point is that if I use options instead, I can make a purchase that I would have made anyway, and be paid a premium for the purchase.

I'm somewhat proud of myself. I haven't spent any money since the 13th. Other than on the notary, but that really doesn't count, I mean I haven't spent any money on bullshit. For whatever reason, as soon as I got home from my shift at the hotel, I had great sleep. Like really deep. After 2 hours I felt completely rested, but I'm continuing to sleep here and there. I thought that I would get up and write something. An update or whatever.

Has today been very productive?
I am not sure. I want to say yes.
I did a mix of things, studied for
work, posted a few new videos of
poetry readings. I should do some
actual reading, maybe. I have no
idea. I did laundry, which was nice.

I went to my appointment with the case manager. My appointment with the psychiatrist has been pushed back around two months. I'll survive. I thought that today was some kind of holiday because when I woke up, I looked at my stocks and they didn't move. It looks like the markets are open. Maybe I was just up early. Fucking nosedive. Fucking markets. Fucking yield curve. I had some requests for documents from the GAP insurance company. They requested weird stuff from the dealership.

I thought about the hamburgers that I ate yesterday.
I went to McDonald's at around 5:30 PM and ordered
four McDoubles and a large order of fries. I like to
put fries in my hamburgers and extra ketchup. I was
also thinking about what books I would like to check
out from the library the next time I am there. I'm
currently reading the Anthology of Postmodern
American Poetry. I want to see if John Cage has
any collections of poetry. George Saunders Victory
Lap in the New Yorker. Write a one paragraph story.
Homework is supposed to be to read the George
Sunders piece and to write a one paragraph story.

...

186

I just received a hell of a lot of Junk mail since I last checked my mailbox, my emails I mean. A million of the spam messages where regarding the boy scouts lawsuit. Nightmare, I've never been in the boy scouts.

My paycheck for this next pay period was quite low, I wasn't able to log as many overtime hours as usual, and, well, that's pretty much it. A while ago I noticed that my weekly overtime was capped at 40 hours per week. This is partly what's motivating my need to spend less on food each day. I went and bought groceries at the Dollar Tree 2 days ago, and I still have some food left. I still feel like I win in this budget game if I spend less than 5 dollars per day.

I haven't studied for my GMAT in a few days now. I'll get to it today.
This HSA that my employer offers is kind of confusing, I haven't made any contributions yet, and I've logged into the plan website a few times, but there is a lot that I don't understand yet.

Jesus. The world is ridiculous. Well, maybe not the world, but quite a bit of it. I can't figure out how to update my physical address on Webull, and that's fucking annoying. 

This is a screenshot where I try to work out whether or not tax loss harvesting makes sense. I'm working out 2 scenarios, one where the price of the stock in question drops ten dollars, and in the second scenario, where the stock price drops ten percent, and in both cases, even when the returns to it's previous levels, your portfolio would still experience an overall loss. The example assumes margin is used. 

There are a few things here, I don't take into account the cost of margin interest. This is fine, I guess, because I was just trying to work out a simple scenario, and I figure that with interest worked into the model, it would still buttress my point.

When my portfolio dropped in February, I decided to sell and buy back in, and I'm thinking that I lost out as a result. Trying to tax lost harvest isn't something I really plan on doing again in the future, and here is another issue with tax loss harvesting.

Even if you can offset your taxes by taking the loss, you actually have to pay taxes on the gain, later, when the stock price returns to it's normal levels.

Let's say you have a portfolio valued at 10,000 dollars, it drops to 5,000 dollars, so you decide to sell to tax loss harvest, then you buy back in, at 5,000 dollars, and your portfolio return to 10,000 dollars, think about it, you might have reduced your taxes by 5,000 by experiencing the loss by selling, but when the stock price bounces back, you'll have to pay taxes on the 5,000 dollar gain anyway. So this isn't a huge win. It might make sense to tax loss harvest to push taxes off into a later tax year, but right now that is the only thing I could think of that makes the transaction make sense.

So it's pretty much the end of the month, and my total cash in to my Robinhood account came up to $690, some money went in, and some came out, but overall I added $ 690. I guess that's okay.

...

187

I'm going to cut and paste the posts that are showing up as having reader hits in the last 24 hours.

Working on my budget. I'll pay the personal loan off as soon as my money comes in, and then my next pay period will allow me to save over 500, which is what I need to be saving to hit 1000 a month. This second job will really help with my saving. I have to keep my sundry expenses low. I made a projection for sundry expenses a while ago, but never actually budgeted for that category. The result is that I'm just sort of winging it. I didn't put it into my budget because it was much higher than I expected. I couldn't swallow that I would be spending that much. I just sort of spend as little as I can. But it's coming out to about as much as I projected a while ago. I want to take a look at it again. I only have two sundry expenses, cigarettes and soda. 

This post was from back when I was living in Missouri, I'm not sure if this refers to a personal loan I had with One Main Financial, or with Citibank, but I remember I didn't have the Citibank personal loan until I had the second job, so this has to refer to my personal loan with One Main Financial. I had that personal loan for a long time, it felt like, but I eventually paid it off. I would later take out a personal loan with Citibank, and pay off a secured credit card, then use the funds from closing out the secured credit card to pay off the personal loan with Citibank.

I have nothing to write. I've been somewhat manic about posting everything I think about or do, and right now I feel like I really don't have much to say. I don't understand what it taking so long for my GMAT scores to upload to my application at UMKC. I guess it takes a while. That's fine. I wrote before that it isn't due for a while. I remember the deadline being at some point in the summer. I didn't get much sleep last night but for some reason I feel very well rested. I went to sleep at around 11 PM and woke up at 1 AM. I spun some ideas around in my head for several hours, then got ready for work. My phone drained 30% in an hour and a half. I need to get a new fucking phone. There was this woman here who looked kind of like KWD. Only I remember KWD having a really shapely ass. I looked up a few businesses in Kansas City that I may be interested in working for either during or after college.

I remember this post, the woman who looked like, you know, someone else, was, I don't even think I remember her name. I glanced into her office a few times, she looked like her, it was her hair and height, but her figure was different. Here is one thing. I remember this moment, when I noticed the woman who like like this other woman from years ago, I was working two jobs at this point, which suggests that I had a second job by the time I wrote Reflection # 602. So I really have no idea which personal loan is being referenced in Reflection # 602.

Some of my posts fucking, reek of immaturity. Shit. I don't know why I'm so juvenile.

Alright. Bullshit, but I did it.
I renamed the blog Chestnut
and Hazel, and registered the
fucking domain name bitch ass
shit. This shit is mine you Canadian
mother fuckers, and then I made
an email with the domain name in
it. The new name is dedicated to
none other than KWD.

I remember renaming the blog. I registered the domain shortly after coming across another business named Prospectus Media Group, so I changed the name of my blog. Later, when it came time to renew the registration of my domain, I paid for registration for the next 10 years.

I was thinking about the money I lost today in the stock market, and the first thing I thought about was the yield curve bull shit I read about a few weeks ago, but I remember other articles I read this morning and I remembered that this movement was due to the trade war nonsense. I'm sure that the world will end soon, and I won't have to worry about this shit. The place that was hiring, that I was looking for a second job with, didn't call back. I did mention in the message that I left them that I plan on keeping my current job. Maybe that is the reason they didn't call.

I just put my mark on three one dollar bills. Oh yeah. I also made some modifications to Civilization 4 that really make this game really addictive. I always play as the United States.

So I did actually look at the date of this post, and it was published on May 7th 2019. I wasn't using Robinhood at this time, I was using a different platform for investing called Stockpile. I don't know how much I had invested at this time. My Guess is that it wasn't much. One thing about Stockpile is that it will record the total account balance at any given time, Robinhood adjusts past balances based on additions and subtractions of cash to the account, the result is that. Well, it's hard to explain just yet.

Anyway, I had $560 invested in my Stockpile account.

For some reason, the screenshot didn't upload the first time, so I uploaded it a second time, and now it's showing up twice. I won't worry about it.

I have to refrain from buying stamps for the foreseeable future. Or buying anything else stupid, or buying anything other that stocks and investments. I want to sell my stamps, and send my cash to my bank, and sell my whiskey, but for now I think I'll just make an effort to deplete everything and use this rather than spend or sell it. I don't know why I bought this shit.

At one point, I had bought a whole bunch of whiskey. Stupid fucking thing. I don't know how much fucking money I have tied up in my whiskey stash, but it's fucking substantial. A lot of money. I would like to liquidate this shit, but, how the fuck do I sell this stuff. Stupid. Anyway. The woman I had sex with the other night kept a bottle of my whiskey, she asked if she could have it, and I said sure, so, she didn't steal it or anything.

I'm somewhat proud of myself. I haven't spent any money since the 13th. Other than on the notary, but that really doesn't count, I mean I haven't spent any money on bullshit. For whatever reason, as soon as I got home from my shift at the hotel, I had great sleep. Like really deep. After 2 hours I felt completely rested, but I'm continuing to sleep here and there. I thought that I would get up and write something. An update or whatever.

I don't exactly remember what was going on at this time, where I had an issue with spending money, or where I had an issue where I needed to keep my spending low, the date for this post was June, 16th 2019. I remember that I had to get my stuff together for my GAP claim on my car that was totaled, so the payment for the notary was for this specific issue. I think I was working two jobs at this point, This has to be the case because I'd already determined that Reflection # 602 was written after I had two jobs, also Reflection # 301 recalls a situation that I know for sure happened after I was working two jobs.

...

188

just took a shower, and now I'm feeling like taking another shower, it's cold, and that's partly the reason I want to take another shower. I don't feel dirty or anything. I think I'll just skip it. I hate wasting water.

Well, I decided against taking another shower, and Instead I just doubled up on layers. It's fucking extremely cold right now. Really fucking cold.

I don't know how exactly the water bill is assessed to the tenants in my apartment complex. I don't know if the water use is aggregated across the buildings, and then levied evenly across the apartment units. I remember this much, the assessment is based on the number of occupants in each apartment unit. That's as much as I remember. My water bill is more than my electricity bill, and I honestly think that I'm paying more for water than my usage level merits.

I noticed that the previous occupant used about 10 times as much electricity as I do.

The fucking last person used 1600 kWh or electricity for June, Unbelievable. Fucking crazy person. I wonder how the hell much that worked out to.

I was about to continue on getting all of my Reflections from Chestnut posts collected, but some of these I really don't even want to look through, at least not right now. I go through strange periods in my life, and I think that my posts reflect that.

...

189

It's fucking cold, and I don't expect it to get less cold later in the year. It's strange, a few days ago it was unbearably hot, and now it's fucking cold. What is this?

What I'm hoping for is an extra shift on Thursday, but I have no idea if I'll get one or not. Who knows. I did get a few overtime hours for this paycheck, but, fuck. I'm hoping to be able to switch to a 40 hour a week schedule once switching shifts becomes available to me.

This is a screenshot of the stocks that I have the greatest number of shares in:
Even though I have 219 shares of KBWD, it isn't possible to issue call options for this stock, the same holds true for KBWY, but for PEY, PGX, and SPTM, it is possible to issue call options.

There is an issue with issuing call options that comes up with dividend stocks, and the issue is called dividend risk, the issuer of a call option is exposed to dividend risk in the event that an issued call option is exercised by the counter-party. I have to read more about these issues, and the correct terminology, but someone who issues a call option is also a seller of a call option, and when the counter party to an issuer of a call option exercises his/her call option, the issuer is said to have been assigned.

Here is a screenshot of an explanation of dividend risk from Fidelity:
There is a scenario where a seller of a call option would have to pay the money to make up for the dividend that the stock issues. This happens with a person sells a call, but does not have the shares to cover the call option in the event that the call is exercised by the counter-party to the option.

The other aspect of dividend risk is that, supposing you hold the shares, suppose you have the number of shares required to cover the call option in the even that the call option is exercised by the counter-party, in certain situations, you would not receive the dividend.

Here is a screenshot detailing dividend risk for call options covered by shares:
I've concluded that it's not possible to update my address on Webull. Stupid. Well, I hardly used the account, so I guess it's not a big deal, but, shit.

And Then They Met

and then there was a point where
no one really thought about him
any more, he no longer really fit
into anyone's memories, or into
the things they thought from day

to day, and that's the point where
he became the most outstanding
person in the entire history of the
universe, and then everyone who
forgot about him, suddenly 
remembered him again, oh yeah! 
That Guy! He

was actually kind of a doofus, and
I remember him, even though I 
haven't really thought of him in
the longest time, I actually do 
remember him. However, before
this situation occurred, he had 
already secretly become the most

amazing person in the United States
of America, yes, secretly, and no
one in the entire world was aware
of this. Except for the Special One.

I want to smoke a cigarette so fucking bad. I walked around and looked for half smoked cigarettes, but whatever. I couldn't find any. Fucking tired. What am I doing? An former co-worker from the warehouse just called, and. I fucking tired. I'm going to take one more nicotine pill, and then I think I'll go to sleep.

I think that I abruptly quite my job at the warehouse, and then I begged for my job back, only to be reinstated, and then I abruptly quit again. I don't know what was going on during this time. I was really fucked up, and I still really am fucked up, maybe not to the same extent that I was during this time, earlier in the year, but still really fucked up. Jesus. Really. I don't know, what the future holds for me. Leaving Missouri was kind of a big mistake. At least that's what I'm kind of concluding, but, I'm still not completely sure about that. I really don't know. I know that during my first few months in Missouri, it felt like leaving Las Vegas was a huge mistake, but things turned out for the better after a while, and moving to Missouri turned out to be a huge positive.

At McDonald's drinking a Diet Dr. Pepper. It's cold, but it isn't freezing. I'm waiting for breakfast at work to open. Money-wise I know that there is a situation. The only bills left that I have to pay during this pay period are two credit card bills and my phone bill. When I pay my credit card bills, I'll have a small amount of available credit, but I really shouldn't spend that money. I need to pay those fuckers down. I need to save some fucking money, but this Santander shit is killing me, and this little personal loan that I took out is a little bit of a speed bump too. I think that those are the two main things I need to focus on. The car loan and the personal loan. Well, obviously I need to focus on those two things. Paying extra money down on my cards and loans was something of an impulse, so now I don't have as much money during this pay period for soda and cigarettes, but maybe that is a good thing.
I want to get a replacement phone and new sneakers, and that should only be about 100 bucks. I don't know if I should hold off another 2 weeks or if I should just get them as planned. I could just put the money aside to buy them during this pay period, that way I can buy them if I need them, but hold off on actually making the purchase until I absolutely need to. Doing this will bring back the more complex accounting on my budget spreadsheet. Or maybe not. I don't know.

I have no idea what was going on at this time, Mid-April of 2019. This must have been before I got the job at the warehouse, and I was working two jobs. I wasn't really hurting for money after I had two jobs going, and, in this post I'm really having issues. I was on a positive financial trajectory once I started working, so, I think that I was okay even before I started working at the warehouse.

   this is annoying. nothing is 
   publishing to my blog.

   i might just give in and get a 
   regular internet connection. 
   i may try some of these remote 
   roles that i see often on job boards.

   i really need the money for school.

   but i shouldnt worry too much about loans.

   but the horoscope did say overcompensating 
   would cause problems.

   yeah. kenneth. that must be regarding something else. 
   go to school. it will be good for you. i promise.

Yeah, this was a strange post, this ends with a final comment where, when it all comes down to it, it's just one side of my brain talking to the other side of my brain, I'm sure that that's really all this was, but I'm not even really sure that I actually believe what I just said. One of the things that almost every psychiatrist I've ever talked to asks me at some point during an evaluation, is if I believe that I can read people's thoughts, or if I believe in telepathy, or that I can communicate with my mind. I know that these kinds of things are not real, but sometimes I think that I only believe that they are not real, because I know that not believing in something like telepathy is the right answer.

Fucking shit. This reader comment had a reader hit. It's regarding the, you know, Ordeal of the Blue Box. Well. Yeah. I don't even know what to think about that. I mean. sometimes I think about it. like who the fuck wrote that comment. really irritated. and. I really don't want to think about it right now. not, that I don't want to think about it ever, but I don't want to think about it right now, like, about whoever wrote about it. I wonder. I just really have no idea who calls me Ken.

When I look through my post history, there are some months where I post a whole shit load of things, and several months where I post next to nothing. I guess that is how life goes, sometimes nothing happens, sometimes a lot happens, but really, there are times when there isn't anything to write about, or. It's kind of like, I write more when I have more time to write, some months were very busy, but for one reason or another, I don't seem to have many posts during those months.

There are plenty of people who figured into my life that I really didn't write much here, even though at one point or another they had an important role to play, or, they were interesting in some way or another, and I just don't have any posts related to this or that person. I don't know why.

what motivates me? i want to say that it's usually necessity. but i dont always want to be in this state of doing things because i need to.

what im thinking of is this: what does the universe want from me? and to what lengths is the universe going to go to get me to do what it wants me to do?

i don't want the universe to force me into something because ive neglected to do it on my own.

There is always this feeling that it's possible that we have free will, or, it's possible that we make our own decisions, but, our decisions are limited by the forces around us, our choices are limited by our circumstances. My feeling, or my thinking is that, we have free will, within limits, but maybe there is a point where we really don't have free will.

...

190

So I may have some money coming my way in the form of a refund. I have no idea what I paid for this thing. I guess I could check my transaction history. This is regarding the Blue Box Ordeal. I actually had several items shipped to myself, but I never thought about returning them, or, never had the motivation to do so, and it just now occurred to me that this might be the most intelligent thing to do with these items.

This was actually extremely helpful. Thanks. I needed the money. What do I do though? I need to do something other than blog all the fucking time, but I'm so tired. I could swear that I slept this entire time. Like the whole time since I got off work on Tuesday morning.

I never know what the hell to do. I don't want to imagine any guardian angel kind of crap.

This is a picture of a kind of map search that I did related to a position that I was emailed about. It's only a few more days before I'm 30 days in from when I was converted to a permanent employee, so I think I'll just wait until I can figure out transferring. There are a lot of other jobs in Haslet similar to the one I'm working.

I'm listening to a documentary on the Ottoman Empire, and their relationship with countries in the Balkans. This word comes up often.

I put in two limit sells for VOO and SPY. My intention is to follow up with a limit buy for the same amount in SPTM. The market is about to close, however, and I really don't think that these will be executed, and I'm really not in the mood to do anything right now anyway. So, whatever.

I think that I'll just cancel them.

Well, it all worked out, I was able to sell one share each of VOO and SPY, and part of a fractional share. I'd have to look at how much total I sold them for, but then I was able to move the funds into OEF, rounding out a share, then SPTM, bringing up my share count to 35 shares.

...

191

I have one more day this week to work on pretty much whatever I have in mind to work on in my personal life. Shit. This is both a good and bad thing. I really need to log more hours at work, but really, I don't fucking, have anything I can do about that right now. I just have to wait and see if a 40 hour schedule comes up that I can switch to. What I'm hoping is that there is a schedule with essentially the same hours, with an extra day available once I hit 30 days, and qualify for a transfer. Please let me get a full 40 hours a week. Jesus. The struggle really is real.

In the meantime I really just have to be somewhat spartan with my money. This has already been the case for god know how long. I guess, I have some opportunities to work on something other than actually working a wage paying job. I could do more research on investing and trading that I have been meaning to do.

There has to be some kind of model for figuring out the value of options. I remember one, from when I was in college. A lot of the options trading videos that I come across use some options calculator, which, I'm guessing runs on some kind of formula or model or something. I really need to check into that. These past few days I've been somewhat napping while watching these educational videos, or sleeping, or driving, or eating, but there are times when I'm watching a video and working on something, and I find the video too distracting to concentrate on what I'm working on, so I turn it off.

I logged into the Copyright Office Portal for registrants, and I noticed that another one of my copyright registrations has been approved. There is one more registration request outstanding, and since it's a much longer file, it's a much larger file than the two previous ones, it may take some time to be approved, but I don't really anticipate having anything else submitted for copyright registration. At least for the remainder of the year.

Damn it. What to do? I have no idea. I really don't. My life is boring. It really is. Well. Maybe I can't do anything portfolio wise until November, and I guess that's amazing. Really, fucking amazing. I have to look up more stuff. I've got to stop wasting a hell of a lot of time blogging, Jesus, there has to be something more productive than this. Writing every little thought that I have, all of it, and posting it here, there has to be something better to do than this. There really has to be. I wonder?

This is a potential disaster, I cancelled a rent payment issued for today, and reissued it for tomorrow, I did this on Monday, but I'm showing that today's payment was processed, which makes me worry that tomorrow's payment will be processed as well. This is shitty.

This is my portfolio filtered by the total number of shares held. I think that switching from funds actually went quite smoothly.

These are the transactions on PEY that I placed, some were executed, and some were cancelled. I was kind of speculating about how to make a call options trade work. There was a situation over the weekend where there was a call option for PEY that had a break even price that was less than the current market price, meaning that the strike price, plus the premium for the call option, were lower than the current market price, I think the specifics were PEY selling for 15.78, and there was a call option with a 13 dollar strike price and a 2.40 premium. So breakeven was 15.40 and the market price was 15.78. I thought that I could make a quick 38 dollars by purchasing the call, executing the option, buying the shares, then selling the shares.

But this was during the weekend when the market wasn't open, and I'm really glad that I didn't purchase the option because the share price dropped substantially that morning, and it's still less than the break even price. I'm really glad that I didn't buy that fucking option.

So what did I do? I sold / wrote a call option for 100 shares that have in PEY, supposing it's executed, my PEY shares will be bought by the counter-party or the purchaser of my call option at a price of $16 per share. For this call option that I sold, I don't have to worry about dividend risk because the next ex dividend date for PEY is 11/23. and the option expires 11/20. Going forward, I have to research dividend dates before issuing any more call options.

So, supposing my option is executed, I'll have 1600 bucks to play around with, plus I'll get to keep the 10 bucks I was paid for issuing the call option, that's a shitty payday for this. Let's see. I calculated this before. Basically it's 10 bucks for a 30 day period, less than that really, but I'll go with 30 days to make it simple, 10 divided by 1477 equals .0067, .0067 times 12 equals .0812, so I get 8 percent on my position when this premium is annualized. That's not a huge amount of money, but it's on top of any capital gains and dividend payments that I would otherwise receive.

I'm going to open up my GMAT study guide and work on a few pages. I'm not sure how to interpret this recent influx of money from the Return of the Blue Box, but supposing I return the other Blue Box items, I think that I'll have enough money to retake my GMAT exam, and submit applications for college. I really don't know about this whole college stuff. I'm going to be an old guy. My hope is that somehow getting a suitable GMAT score will make up for my less than impressive GPA, and my less than impressive resume. Jesus. I really don't know.

Shit, I'll think of taking the GMAT and applying for graduate school as a kind of call option that I'm purchasing, this could expire worthless, the applications and the exam, or the money that I'm going to spend on the exam and my applications, but it is an option that I can also exercise, meaning, I could spend all this money, and this time, actually go. This all started 2 years ago. Maybe I can make this happen.

...

192

So there is a problem. There is a chance that two sets of payments will be processed for me rent this month, one for 10/30, and a second one for 10/31. This is a mild nightmare, it just means that I'll be ahead 1 month for my rent, which isn't a huge deal, but I really don't want this to happen.

What happened? on the 26th I cancelled a payment to be issued on 10/30, and issued a new payment for 10/31, however I just got an email stating that the payment for 10/30 would be processed. I logged into my payment center for my apartment complex and it wasn't clear to me if the payments for 10/31 would be processed.

I transferred money from my Robinhood account to my checking account to cover this potential double charge, but I have to get this all sorted out. Now let's think of a minute, I could call the apartment manager and see what's up, but she could tell me that the second payment won't go through. I think I'll just go to her office.

The apartment manager didn't have any better of an idea of what's going to happen than I did, and she concluded what I did, that basically all the payments would process, and I basically paid rent for the next two months. I'll keep tabs on my accounts just to make sure, but shit, this kind of sucks.

I'm really tired, and I'm going to take a nap. I have work tonight. I really have to think about my strategy, my overall long term plans. Jeeze.

I applied for a few jobs. One is a part-time side hustle kind of job. I really don't want to switch employers right now, but there were a few jobs that I applied for that were full-time, and had a higher hourly rate than my current employer.

I'm just thinking, really, I should wait until November 6th to see if I can switch to a schedule that offers 40 hours a week, and that would be enough to deal with the budget shortfall that I'm facing right now.

I should really just wait. It's only 1 week that I have to wait. Jesus.

There is a part-time position at the University of Texas at Arlington that I'm going to go ahead and apply for, it's 4 hours a day, and it would work with my current job.

distributed environment
PCs, Macs, Linux, Android, iOS, ITSM, HEAT, PeopleSoft
Knowledge base documentation

Even though I just applied for a part-time position, I think that I might not get my hopes up too much about this position.

So this is a nightmare. The most recent position that I applied for asked for references. Jesus. Who can I list as a reference? Nightmare. This is silly stuff. References. Nightmare.

I'm super tired and I really can't wait until the day ends. Can I really do two full time jobs? I have no idea, but I'm wondering really if the maintenance tasks and projects at the hotel are starting to slow down anyway. I'm not sure, and Graduate school. On the one hand I'm afraid of going and nothing coming of it, but working two jobs for who knows how long is scary too. I have no idea what to do. I have no real outline for the future. I have no idea what lies ahead. I have no idea what to expect.

It happens again and again and again, like circles, the same thoughts and worries over and over. Really, this is a nightmare. All off life is a real nightmare. Well, as it turned out, I was able to work two jobs. It was when I was covering in Housekeeping that I had issues. 1 issue was the fumes from the cleaning and sanitizing products we used. The fumes really made it hard to concentrate. There was another issue, and the issue was that longer term stays were allocated to 1 section of the hotel, and shorter term stays were allocated to another part of the hotel, and the housekeeping assignments were made in a way where it seemed that I typically had the lion's share of the difficult assignments. Well, I don't know exactly what it was, but for some reason I couldn't meet the room completion expectation, but at the same time, I really think that the expectations didn't consider the challenges that I faced, the additional COVID-19 procedures, and handling the more challenging cleaning assignments.

One thing that I should avoid if I work 2 jobs is that I should avoid working 2 jobs that have intense physical demands. I should work 1 job that has physical demands, but the second job should be something like sitting at a desk, more or less.

I had an email exchange with a representative from the Copyright Office regarding the specifics of my application. This was pretty interesting. I wonder if they actually read any of the material.

I'll continue looking for part-time work during the day, but I'm going to limit my search to positions here in Arlington.

Let's just keep going. I slept quite a lot during the week, during the last few days I wasn't scheduled for any shifts, so I should be well rested, and I shouldn't be too concerned about not getting enough sleep right now.

Sometimes I feel like I'm always starting again. Always starting over. This is a nightmare.

I'm just going to wait until I can figure out transferring to a different shift with more hours, and maybe to a closer location. I'm feeling lost again. I'm feeling unsure of myself again. I'm feeling unsure about the future.

A lot of the jobs that I'm seeing are more or less similar to the job I currently work, and the pay is almost no different. Some of the places have really bad reviews, and it's one thing for people to be complaining that the job is difficult, or that they don't like there manager, but some of the complaints about these other companies is that the employee's paycheck had bounced, which is a huge concern to me, like, that is the worst possible thing that I can think of. That can be hard to recover realistically.

What does a person do in those kinds of cases? I have no idea, and I'm thinking that a lot of admin, office, and clerical positions just aren't being hired for right now. I remember seeing quite a few that were remote work, and there is this staffing agency that keeps reaching out to me, but I've been somewhat skeptical about responding, so I haven't replied to their emails.

...

193

I updated my FAFSA to include a few more school in Texas. I just really don't know what on earth I'm doing, and, sometimes, it feels like, this might be all that life has for me, being what feels like just a few steps away from complete disaster. 

Or maybe there's a disaster coming up for me somewhere soon. I have no idea. I'd honestly like life to be easier for me. I would really like to get everything I want, but I wonder, probably, the more I'd get, the more I would want. 

I imagine being such a big shot that I want to colonize space, and terraform planets, and create space stations the size of the moon. People imagine doing that kind of stuff, and I think that when they have enough money, the actually go out and try to do that stuff.

I remember buying a handful of lottery tickets the other day when the jackpot was something like 86 million, and I remember thinking that this was the stupid universe calling me, telling me that I was going to win, like cool person, well, not the case, obviously. I didn't win the jackpot, or any massive amount of money or even any money actually. Silly.

What do I do in the meantime, to make things better for myself? I don't have the slightest clue. I would have liked to have had better guidance in life, better advice. Maybe I received the best advice that could have been given to me at any given time, and maybe I did as much as I could with it.

Maybe I just have to relax, maybe everything will be fine, but maybe everything will be a total fucking disaster, or maybe a slow descent into boredom, into a world of unexciting stuff, that will happen, slowly, over time, more and more boring. Maybe this is me suffering. Shit. I have no idea. I never have any fucking idea. I'm always fucking lost.

I'm browsing jobs that would be in an office or clerical setting, and many of these I don't exactly have the qualifications for. I don't know what to do about this.
I'm just going to put my resume out there for some of these clerical jobs, just to get started.

So I did it, I applied for one position, with a temp agency. Jesus. I hope that there is someone out there looking out for me. Is there? Someone out there looking out for me? Please, I just need a little clarity.

I'm going to car-pool with one of my co-workers. This should help me save some money, and potentially stop smoking as well. I hope.

I need to get into a routine on my days off.

I made it to work with my co-worker. There was a point where the highway was closed. This is going to be strange not smoking my pipe during break.

...

194

So the other day I repositioned my portfolio, selling off anything I didn't have a huge amount of equity in and putting those funds into positions I had more equity in. Basically I sold off any holdings less than 100 bucks, and a lot of stuff that I wasn't too familiar with. I'll take a look at those holdings later and see if they are good buys again, but in many cases they were just purchases I made because I wanted to follow the stock or ETF.

In Retrospect

Real or imagined? I'm going to
say imagined, and I'm going to
say I responded irrationally to an
irrational interpretations of signs
and messages I imagined to be
for me and directed at me.

I imagine, thousands of years from
now, an alien civilization coming to
Earth for Saturday's dollar deals
at McDonald's, thinking the invitation
is directed at them at the time they
receive the advertisement, only to
be disappointed that humanity

has long since moved away from one
dollar deals at McDonald's.

- for Chestnut & Hazel

I feel kind of sad right now. The extra money from the return will be pretty helpful, and it will get the money issue out of the way when it comes to taking my exam and completing my application, but seeing the return just causes me to re-live the whole series of events, everything up to the, what I can only see as a disappointing present.

A Question for Annalise
It isn’t clear to me how to apply, 
and what documents are required. 
I’m not sure how to connect with 
the appropriate resources that I 
need to attend the University of 
Texas system. It also isn't clear
to me why I have this issue inside
my brain where I can't stop fantasizing
about pastries and candies

I have no idea what I want to do right now. I don't really have any free time right now, I'm just wondering if there is anything to do. Paid some bills, and transferred some money to my investment account. I really can't wait for the fucking stimulus check.

I'm extremely tired. And I'm really starting to hate everything. Like really bad. I really want to go into Kansas City, and I'm sure it wouldn't be a huge deal, but I can wait, and I guess I'll just wait until this is all over.

I have no idea what the hell I want right now. I have no idea. Really. I really don't. I need to pay off a personal loan, and close out the balance on my credit card. Those are the two things that I really need to focus on right now. I want to make more money, but I really don't know what I can do in that respect. My thoughts are all over the place right now. I'm really just typing out thoughts as they occur to me. I don't know what the hell is going on here. I feel like my credit card balance has not really been going down. What the hell am I doing? What the hell am I spending my money on? I keep spending it. Really just on spirits and stuff I really think.
Screenshots from an article I'm reading.

Still thinking about money. Today will be a short day at work. How do I slowly bring my 401K contributions to 50%? And bring my tax withholding back up as well. I will basically have nothing to spend. Do you love money? I do. I do. I do.

I have to refrain from buying stamps for the foreseeable future. Or buying anything else stupid, or buying anything other that stocks and investments. I want to sell my stamps, and send my cash to my bank, and sell my whiskey, but for now I think I'll just make an effort to deplete everything and use this rather than spend or sell it. I don't know why I bought this shit.

I signed up for a Webull Account. I can't believe this. I think I'll still keep my Stockpile account, however. I just don't think that I'll continue to make purchases through Stockpile, other than when I get dividends. So what I do with Stockpile, currently, is that when I get dividends, it is usually not a hell of a lot of money because my Stockpile account is very small, but what I do is i transfer a few hundred dollars to use to buy additional stock through my Stockpile account. Suppose I have a dividend of .05, well, that isn't a hell of a lot of money, so I transfer 200 or so bucks to my Stockpile account, then make a purchase of 200.05 through my Stockpile account. So I won't buy any more stock through Stockpile, except when I have dividends, and I'm going to limit what I own through Stockpile to the stocks I currently already invest in.

I farted around too much on the internet chat rooms today. Webull looks really complicated. I was wondering about margin with Webull, and I need to bring my porfolio up to 2000 before I can use margin. I also saw that Webull offers an IRA. Here is the thing. Fidelity also offers an IRA, and since I have my 401K with Fidelity, it may make sense just to keep everything retirement related with Fidelity. I'll think about it.

I'm fucking tired. I don't know if today was a good day or not. I have work later tonight. I'm tired. Really tired. I think a few hours is enough. Just enough really. I just now thought to take my vitamins. Maybe that is it. I did not take my vitamins. I watched the Emma Layne stream briefly, but I don't have any stars to send, and since I am now only working one job, I may potentially be in a situation at some point in the future. A former co-worker said she was looking for a baby-sitter for Saturday night, but didn't say how much she was paying. I need to take whatever odd jobs that I can. I'm worried. Webull seems pretty cool, but I really don't have the money to load it up, and I really don't want to sell anything from Robinhood or Stockpile to fund it. I'll figure out that situation later.

So I guess I don't work at the warehouse anymore, and I don't work at the hotel anymore. So I guess I'm unemployed, or maybe even self-employed. I don't know how I'm going to fund my Webull account now. Shit. I'm tired and I more or less don't give a shit anymore. I really thank god that I didn't really have any success dating, that I didn't buy a house, that I didn't move out of my parent's house. That I worked two jobs for as long as I did.

I guess I'm just going to hibernate or something, I guess I sort of have 2 not full paychecks left coming, on from the hotel, and one from the warehouse. I don't know how long that will get me by, but maybe just long enough to make a decision.

Think About What You Did
Just think about it
I'm not any 
worse off as a
result.

BUT I'M STILL MAD!
ABOUT!
WHAT YOU DID!

I sold most of my Robinhood stocks, except for the dividend funds, and that should cover my Robinhood gold subscription that I pay every month. I think last month they generated $16 dollars in dividends. Robinhood gold is $5 dollars per month. Well, after all that stock market excitement. I basically made $100 dollars.

I think that I actually have 3 checks left. One full one from the warehouse for last week, then another partial check for this partial week that I worked, then a partial check from the hotel, and I think that's it. Like what do I do budget wise until I find another job? I'm tired. So Tired.

My margin account is settled. I don't have any stocks, other than my 401K, HSA, and some other stuff. Maybe 3 thousand in my brokerages. 20 thousand in cash. I don't have any bills to pay until June, but June is just around the corner, and my remaining checks should take me through June as well, assuming I spend no money. 
I guess I really am going to stop smoking and start drinking water.

What I have no idea about is what to do about my Fidelity money, from the warehouse job. Like I really have no idea what to do. Like I really don't know if I'll be able to get a job with a health plan and retirement plan at any point in the near future, and this is really lousy. Maybe I'll call Fidelity and see what employers they have that use Fidelity for their health and retirement accounts.

I was able to get rid of my cash, and get a check that I can deposit to my bank account, I transferred 200 from my Robinhood Brokerage account, to my checking accounts. I really can't spend shit until I find a job.

I was worried for a minute just now. I was trying to set up my Webull account, or just browse around I guess, and I was looking at my transfer history, and noticed that one of my recent transfers failed, but I remember why. I was limited on the number of transfers that I can make from my bank account to Webull, and I was in excess of that limit. What happened?Well. I was just fucking around I guess, and basically, I made two transfers to Webull, and then later wanted to complete the required transfers to get the free stock, the extra share of free stock over and above the free stock granted for simply opening an account, and then also, I wanted to get the free raffle ticket to get the free share of Google stock.

There was one thing that I noticed that I didn't notice before, well, basically. Well I was watching CNBC with my brother earlier, and it is night time, and Bloomberg was going a segment, or paid advertising section on gold coins, and I basically said fuck gold coins for right now, but what was I thinking? Well. What? Okay. So international index funds are different for Germany, The United Kingdom, France, and Spain, and those were the indexes that were flashing on the screen, the television screen.

Oh yeah, and I would really kill for a cigarette right now, but I really don't want to smoke right now. I think. Outside of this stock market horse shit, I think that. Well I think that everything happens for a reason. There is a point were you can't exactly tolerate certain stuff any more, and you really just have to find something else to do. Like really, maybe this unemployment phase of my life, my recent history life or whatever, is really just a chance to really do something else. Like I can really do something else this time. I have enough money, and if I fuck it all up, and go broke, then maybe I can start all over again. Like do this all over again. Like for a year I can work two jobs and save some money or whatever. Or maybe I should just take it easy until I find another job.

But I do need either cigarette money, or I need to stop smoking. Like really? what do I do? I took a nicotine pill earlier, and I just took another nicotine pill a minute ago.

So the other day I repositioned my portfolio, selling off anything I didn't have a huge amount of equity in and putting those funds into positions I had more equity in. Basically I sold off any holdings less than 100 bucks, and a lot of stuff that I wasn't too familiar with. I'll take a look at those holdings later and see if they are good buys again, but in many cases they were just purchases I made because I wanted to follow the stock or ETF.

In Retrospect

Real or imagined? I'm going to
say imagined, and I'm going to
say I responded irrationally to an
irrational interpretations of signs
and messages I imagined to be
for me and directed at me.

I imagine, thousands of years from
now, an alien civilization coming to
Earth for Saturday's dollar deals
at McDonald's, thinking the invitation
is directed at them at the time they
receive the advertisement, only to
be disappointed that humanity

has long since moved away from one
dollar deals at McDonald's.

- for Chestnut & Hazel

I feel kind of sad right now. The extra money from the return will be pretty helpful, and it will get the money issue out of the way when it comes to taking my exam and completing my application, but seeing the return just causes me to re-live the whole series of events, everything up to the, what I can only see as a disappointing present.

...

195

shocking, this is all
really shocking and
it all really seems
not the best.

I guess there's always the hope of more voluntary shift opportunities. I won't be able to switch to a 40 hour a week shift for the time being, even after I hit my 30 day waiting period. I wonder?

I guess I could consider this to be an opportunity, rather than some kind of a negative situation. I'll have more free time during the day. I guess that's nice.

There was a kind of disappointment that occurred today, and, well, disappointments seem to happen more often than I really care to admit.

So I thought that. and I don't even know if I'm entirely ready to discuss this, but I thought that. I felt like. I don't even know how to say this, how to explain this.

I think of friendship as. I just don't see it as particularly useful. So I don't really explore those options. The best way I can describe what most people refer to as friendship is basically two people who enjoy wasting time together. Two people who enjoy the company of one another.

I don't know what it is. Really. I'm almost sure that it's not what I'm looking for. I don't know.

What can I say. It was a learning experience, maybe?

I don't know. I need to. I want to say it right.

What?

I think. I'm not. 

I'm trying to think this through. It's more or less over, so, I don't know if there's much of a point to this. But.

She said she doesn't find me physically attractive, and to me, that pretty much ends it.

To me, our interactions over the past week and a half or so were, as I see them, a courteous way of saying just as much. Sometimes, it's just not the kind of thing a person says right away.

We all know when we first see someone if we find the person physically attractive or not, but it's not necessary to say this right away, and it only needs to be said once it needs to be said.

And I guess that's what has been on my mind, and that's the thing I found disappointing.

I told her that I understand that she isn't physically attracted to me, and that's something that I can respect. I explained that for me it would be emotionally taxing to be friends with someone that I'm attracted to and who isn't attracted to me.

And I'm wondering if maybe that's what she had in mind all along in the first place. And. I know that I can be unnecessarily elaborate with the way I approach things, and maybe this was a very elaborate way of telling me that I'm not physically attractive. We'll. I could have figured that out myself.

Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being baptized an acolyte of Christianity & Company Incorporated, PLC (Société anonyme). so. You know. It's like that.

then you ate the veggies
and they had plenty of fiber
and they cleaned you out.

Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being baptized an acolyte of Christianity & Company Incorporated, PLC. so. You know. It's like that.

...

196
 
When you Think

I love the feeling that
I get when I think that
I no longer think about
those things that remind
me of the things that taste

like oranges
and those things
that remind me of the
flavor of the burgers at the
burger joint and the things
that have been cooked once

or twice and those things that
are more pathetic than those
things that I actually like and
those objects in the bag of candy
and those things in the candy
bar wrapper and that thing

that I ate the other day and when
hash browns are sold to the people
they are usually cooked first
and when you when you think.

When you think? This is what happens
when you think? are you aware of what
happens when you think? has
anyone told you what you think? when you
think about it? when you think this
is what happens?

This was a real godsend, actually.

As in, I actually need the money right now. I would have not thought to make a return. I actually have several items, I have to call Tiffany & Co. and ask for receipts for the stuff that I have. I think that I had one order redirected back to me, and it's a bunch of stuff.

I haven't studied for my GMAT for a week or so. Without having any overtime, I should have more time to study, I might not have any call-ins for extra shifts, so I can use this time to study. Shit. I don't want pressure, but for some reason I sometimes have a lack of motivation. If I don't force myself, sometimes things never get done.

I have to make a point to get it done, to study and all that and be prepared to take the test. Dumb.

...

197
 
Life gets boring sometimes. I really haven't kept up with the presidential election, but I did vote earlier, either last month or, maybe this month, the last time I had some free time, which I think was last month, It's a few days difference between this month and last month, it isn't like I've been extremely busy. I did respond to a recruitment email for a second job. I've worked two jobs before, and I'm hoping this isn't the only thing that will ever work for me.

I performed a lot of trades the other day, and well, I was flagged as a pattern day trader again. So I won't be able to perform and day trades again until early February. There is a 90 day holding period after being flagged as a pattern day trader.

I have a few more transactions with Tiffany & Co. that I can get returns on. I don't know why I'm such an idiot.

I took a brief look at graduate school programs in Texas, at universities in Texas, and I think that Arlington is more or less than only place that has the program / programs that I'm interested in.

I feel a little bit of the good old. Agony. Ugh.

...

198

I'm working on mixture problems for the GMAT, and, I guess this could be easier than I'm making it, but I'm trying to think of things in a way that I can understand them, and this really isn't working out exactly, I mean, not the way that I want it to. This is dumb. I hate this. It has to do with solutions and mixtures and a resulting mixture with a specific solution.

The problem involves mixing a 15 % solution with an 8 % solution to get a 10 % solution, you have 5 units of the 8 % solution, how many units of the 15 % solution do you need to use to get a 10 % solution?

So I've been working on this crap for two hours almost, and well, I guess the operations to solve this problem are simple enough, but I'm still thinking about it in a way that I can understand it. Then there is this video on YouTube with a separate problem involving a 20 % solution and a 40 % solution, the quantities are unknown, but the resulting mixture is a 28 % solution totaling 20 units.

Recent Thoughts

I think about how useless
everything in the entire
universe is, and how lazy
you are, and juvenile so
fucking many of poems
are, and how immature I
am, relative to the more
mature people that I can
think of, and who are my
age, and who make better
decisions than I do, and who
are more well-adjusted
than I am. Well. I guess that's
how it goes when you're an
immature little shit.

So I guess I studied as much for the GMAT as I could care to study for it, about 2 hours, and I haven't done anything else since I posted a note to this post about 3 hours ago. I studied for 2 hours, and worked on 1 problem.

Anyway. I transferred additional funds to my Robinhood account, with the idea that I would sell some put options on stocks that I'm interested in. I couldn't really find anything with put options action with the amount of funds that I can put up as collateral. Here is one thing about put options, the funds that you put up as collateral have to be 100 % cash, meaning that you can't use margin as collateral for writing a put options contract.

Suppose you have $ 2800 in buying power, with margin turned on, and you are looking at a stock that costs $ 14, you would be able to purchase 200 shares of this stock if you bought them outright, but you could only write 1 put option contract for 100 shares with this amount of buying power.

I spent the last few hours looking at stocks in the $ 5 range that I could potentially write put options contracts for, and I came across several stocks with very high dividend rates, but what I found with many of these is that the dividends were cut substantially during the last two quarters, so that was one thing I was really glad I looked out for, many of them were real estate, mortgage, investment, or hospitality companies, some industrial companies, some in energy.

I wrote three options contracts so far, 2 call options contracts, and 1 put options contract. They expire in a little over 2 weeks, and I'm just sort of hoping that none of them are exercised by the counter-party, and what else?

There was one company that I came across that buys and sells intellectual property, and I thought that was an interesting idea, I read about patent trolls all the time, but it's kind of interesting, the whole idea of intellectual property, a person might buy a piece of intellectual property, expecting a stream of payments from it or whatever, only to be stiffed by some company that doesn't want to pay royalties, but also, sometimes a company might invent something, and some person comes along demanding royalties on something they hold a patent for. I don't know how that whole issue works out. I'm not in that business and I don't know all the nuances of intellectual property.

...

199
 
There were no offers for extra shifts at work this week. I did explore some options for a second job, but I was just responding to recruiting emails. I wrote a put option contract earlier.

I wonder what else I should work on? I want to call Tiffany & Co. to see about making additional returns, but I'm just so nervous about it. I'm kind of embarrassed as well.

When I think about the idea of everything happening for a reason, I think that maybe this small amount of trouble I'm having finding a second job, as well as not really having the energy to look for a second job, is part of my life story, like what's next, like what's the next thing in my life that is meant to happen.

I don't know, like maybe this is my time to figure out trading.

So what are some of the things on my mind? I'm not in any options positions that I'm uncomfortable with, but, they might not go my way, and of course, that's something that's on my mind. The call options I've written are on stocks that I'm long on, with strike prices that I'm comfortable selling these shares at.

I'm super bored right now. I want something useful to read. I didn't study for my GMAT today, and I didn't work on that math problem that I actually found interesting.

I kind of look out for signs every now and then, and sometimes things that I think of as signs come up, but they are only small ones.

I think of not having any extra shift openings at work as a kind of opportunity, rather than necessarily a bad thing, but I do need to switch to a 40 hour a week schedule as soon as I'm able to.

...

200

So I submitted a requested document to the unemployment office for Missouri. I don't entirely understand what's going on with that situation, but, I figured I might as well respond to their request. I'm not super optimistic about anything coming of that situation.

Then I emailed Tiffany & Co. regarding the transactions I made earlier this year, the purchases. I'm really happy that one of the items was returned. I really would have never thought to return these things, but Jesus. I'm in a situation right now. I have money, kind of, but I need that money. It's invested in the stock market, and I want it to stay there. I would have said I need it to stay there, but that isn't super true.

I made a few plays in the stock market, but I don't know how optimistic I am about them. I'm doing something different than I was doing before, trying something other than investing in index funds and thematic ETFs, and just throwing money into my portfolio passively. I have small holdings in individual stocks, but I wrote put options on several of these individual stocks, and if they are assigned to me, or executed by the counter-party, then I might have an additional 1000 dollars in individual stocks.

I guess I figured out the mixture problem. The issue I was having was that I would work with 2 variables. But while watching some videos, I realized that I can express the quantity of one variable in terms of the other.

So instead of having X represent the quantity of the first solution and Y represent the second solution, I could just express Y in terms of X.

Yeah, so I was making things more complicated than I needed too, but the other thing that I realized is that, even if I felt like making things complicated, the other thing that I was forgetting was substitution.

Here is an example:

The question asks how many units of a 15 % solution do I need to add to 5 units of an 8 % solution to get a mixture that is a 10 % solution.

So I was setting it up this way:

15(x) + 8(y) = 10(z)

so 

z = x+y

15(x) + 8(y) = 10(x+y)

and y = 5

15(x) + 8(5) = 10(x+5)

then it becomes easy because you just need to solve for x, and this was what was missing, I was forgetting to substitute.

The second question is how many units of a 20 % solution need to be added to a 40 % solution to get a 28 % solution that is 20 units total.

set it up this way

20(x) + 40(y) = 28(20)

you know that 20 = x + y

right?

You know that when you add the quantity of solution x with the quantity of solution you get x+y, which equals 20 units.

but take 20= x+y and solve for y to get 

y= 20-x

then substitute that into the original equation:

y= 20-x

20(x) + 40(y) = 28(20)

20(x) + 40(20-x) = 28(20)

Then solve for x.

There was this one point where, before I was substituting I got something like

20(x) + 40(y) = 28(x+y)

then, without substituting, I would go to the next step and get

20(x) + 40(y) = 28(x) + 28(y)

it wasn't clear to me where to go with that.

but suppose you are on that track, you'll get

20(x) - 28(x) + 40(y) - 28(y) = 0

then

-8(x) + 12(y) = 0

or

12(y) =8(x)

Suppose you got that far, 

the key is to remember that 20 = x + y

then solving for y and then substituting it into the last equation and then solving for x.

so

12(y) =8(x)

20 = x + y   becomes

y = 20-x

then

12(20-x) =8(x)

then solve for x, and you get the same thing as before,

but remember, substitute!

that was the thing I kept forgetting to do. I was getting stuck over and over again, with both of the problems.

This math isn't super complicated, and I guess the issue was just an oversight. Thank god I watched that video more than once, and I was getting confused because during the video, the person actually makes a mistake, and that confused me a ton. but it was that little moment when he substitutes that I figured out where I was going wrong.

and, actually, he didn't substitute, he never sets up an x and a y, he just skips that whole thing, and that when I realized that my problem was that, either he is skipping a step, or I'm adding a step, but regardless who is cutting something out and who is adding something, there is one step between his process and my process that was missing.

Well, that's over.
I want to do it later, but I might as well get it done now, these Tiffany & Co. Issues.

I did apply for a transfer within the company, there are several other locations in the Dallas - Fort Worth area. I applied for 2 positions, both full time and both overnight. My hope is that I can still do stock market stuff during the day if I work nights.

I think that my transfer was approved. I did here back from someone at the transfer location. This should be pretty cool.

Hi,

Starting your own business can be tremendously rewarding, but as any 
entrepreneur knows, you must overcome a lot of fear and uncertainty in 
order to be successful.

Is it possible for me to submit an article on your website that gives 
advice to prospective entrepreneurs on how to overcome the fear of 
beginning a new business?

Please let me know if you like this topic for your website, and I'll get 
started writing.

Thank you very much!
Cameron Ward
cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com

Regards,
Cameron Ward | cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com

Note: This email was sent via the Contact Form gadget on 
http://www.chestnutandhazel.com

If the Druidic Council approves reimbursement for Marijuana, I want to submit medical expense reports for medicinal blowjobs. You wouldn't believe how therapeutic blowjobs can be. 

#pontifexmaximus

...

201

I'm reviewing old blog posts that have had reader hits in the last 24 hours. I haven't done this in a while, but really, I've never done it with any regularity.

I saw that the election was called in favor of Biden. I honestly wasn't super motivated one way or another, for either of the candidates.

Okay. So the strategy for paying off the personal loan is to pay it off in bite sized pieces for the next 7 weeks. This makes the most sense to me, even if it extends the pain for far longer than I really want to. I really don't want to be paying off this fucker for the next 2 months, almost. Hate this shit. And then the credit card, a similar strategy, but also, spending a lot less per month. Sometimes I get in these moods where I buy a bunch of stuff. One time it was spirits, then it was digital content. After I pay off the personal loan and credit card, I'm going to pump my 401K to the max. Max that mother fucker.

This is a strange post, and I really don't remember any of this. When did I take out a personal loan? It must have been a small one from LendUp or something, but really, I don't remember it. There was a time when LendUp still offered loans with an APR of around 35%, which is still high, but in line with most unsecured personal loans, I think the loan amounts were around a thousand bucks, but they stopped offering these during the pandemic. I think that I may have paid off this loan shortly, or never took it out. Oh, I remember.

I actually do remember this personal loan, and now I remember. According to my records, I took it out in March, and paid it off in June. Reading this post, I remember I took it out when the COVID-19 pandemic was really getting out of hand. I mean, in February it was already a huge issue. I just now that I took one out during the early stages of the Pandemic, and then, paid it off later, and I remember, they eliminated the loan type I utilized, so I decided not to take another one out at any point in time, later.

I think that the transfer should be interesting, I'm honestly just hoping to get more hours each week, and I do, really want more overtime hours.

I napped from 9 AM to 2 PM, so about 5 hours of rest, I think that's decent, I have to work on the Tiffany & Co. returns, I contacted customer service via email, and they sent me a form that I need to complete and return. This might take a while, but I need receipts, then I can make a return.

So I went to my mailbox provider, and picked up my mail. I received my copyright registration certificate, and I was going to print out the receipt request forms for the Tiffany transactions, but I went into the store too late, by a few minutes, and they were closing. It's Saturday, and I wasn't aware that they had shorter hours. I mean, I'm sure that I knew that Saturday hours are shorter than Weekday hours, but I hung out in my car for a while before going in to get my prints, and they were closing. I wasn't aware that it was the weekend, or, I didn't think that it was the weekend. It doesn't always feel like a weekend when my workweek starts on a Friday. I put on my calendar to figure this out on Monday, which is my day off, and figure it out then. Then I emailed customer service to see if there is a way to deal with the return and refund process that is quicker than requesting receipt copies first.

I tried to see if there was a way of requesting receipts through my credit card provider, because I did see that option once, but I guess it wasn't there. I could have sworn that I'd seen that option before.

I feel like treating myself to a meal, like a really good one. Like the buffet really. I've been eating noodles and pop tarts for a while now.

I want to go out to eat, but I think I did that twice recently. I went Saturday morning and Sunday morning last week. So I'm not holding out on myself by not going.

I switched out my phone a while back, it's the same model, just a replacement phone, the last one was cracked, and at some point got even more cracked. The consequence is that I don't have all the apps on my new phone as I had on my old phone, and honestly, I'm bored as hell.

Really though, it's just Twitter and Pinterest and LinkedIn that I don't have access to right now. I guess I can download them and downloading them wouldn't be that hard.

I'm on lunch and I'm extremely bored. There isn't any news I really want to read. Most of what shows up is sports. I think if I want to read more businesses news I probably have to pay for a subscription. In a way, though, some of the stock pick advice articles really don't offer much in the way of anything that I can really do right now. I have to wait until after November 20th, when my options expire that I'll either be assigned, or free, and then I can figure out what to do from there. I have six individual stocks that I'm watching. Most of the index funds I'm basically just keeping as my long term holdings. I want to say that I'm holding on to them as a more or less permanent position.

maybe there are new
people for you to meet
and maybe
you will in love
with some slut
who actually loves
you back.

and, I guess in that vein, I guess I should no longer refer to my 7.5 inch Johnson as a form of currency, even though it is surely a 7.5 inch money maker!

#inflation 
#filipinodollar
#filipinopeso
#filipinodong
#filipinowang
#filipinorouble

The main issues that are weighing on my mind right now are: getting into graduate school, paying for graduate school, paying back any student loans that I might accumulate while attending graduate school, completing graduate school without running out of cash and credit, and then finding employment sufficiently remunerative such that any student loans I have to pay back aren't excessively burdensome.

Even though I might be getting distracted. Or at least I feel like I'm getting distracted. It's possible that I'm getting more done than I think. What is one thing that I would like to get done? Well, complete another Copyright Registration. The issue here isn't time. It's money. I'm already stretched super thin in terms of money, and I really don't have any money to spend on pet projects, but in a way, when I say that, I know that I've spent more on lunches than. You know. Impulse purchases are issues too. you know. and I'm wasting money in one area or another, that should be better used in some other area.

This is probably a useless thing to point out, but I have a folder for links that I have used in the past, but, don't plan on using anytime soon, they may be specific in some way, like, a specific facebook page. I might not. i obviously don't need to bookmark facebook, but there may be a specific facebook page that i might want to book mark. anyway. i have a specific bookmarks folder for bookmarks that are kind of like that. super specific pages in. anyway. the situation there is that I had folders within my archived bookmark folders. i fixed that issue of having folders within my archived bookmarks folder for bookmarks of pages within websites that i want to bookmark, but the main website doesn't need to be bookmarked. stupid trivial issue.

Fuck. Let me think for a minute. Incessant distractions. There was something that I was thinking about. Okay. it's about the wash loss rule regarding stock trading. I wouldn't be worrying about this right now, however, I basically did not get. My unemployment insurance claim was not approved, or, disqualified, so I'm basically selling the shares I have in my Robinhood account to cover my current needs, and this also wouldn't be an issue, however, the current market prices of the shares I'm selling are below my cost-basis for the shares that I'm selling.

So I'm selling my fucking shares at a realized loss, and this has the potential to cause me to run afoul of the wash-sale rule in the event that I'm not realizing my capital losses correctly.

You know. There's a fucking correct way to lose money and shit. what a fucking nightmare.

...

202

I followed up with Tiffany & Co. and I don't think that I'll be able to return some of these things, partly because it's past 30 days after the purchase date. Yeah, I don't know how any of this is going to work, or if it's going to work at all.

If I ever see you again,
I will shit my pants, and
piss my pants too.
So: Stay Away!

I must have written this in February of 2019, I have a post for it on April 2019 on my blog, but I remember this may have been a series, the Etude series is something I worked on when I was at the Psychiatric Ward at Mosaic. I was looking at posts that had reader hits, and this was pretty much the only previous post that I found amusing.

So here are the Stock options that I've written through Robinhood:

A lot of these are really close, SPTM and PEY are stocks that I really want to hold on to. When I wrote the call option on SPTM, I think that the share price was around 40.90, and I really thought that 44.00 was a long shot, even though the share price has been somewhat suppressed lately, yeah, I really though that 44.00 was kind of out of the question, but the share price is already really close, and the last the thing I really want is to be assigned, and my shares to be sold.

Here is the thing that I was thinking, the 52 week high was less than 44.00, and this year's 52 week high would have also been the record high for the market as well, this is a fund that includes large, mid, and small cap indexes, and, I don't know, the share price seems to turn around after hitting 43 and change, I really figured that It was highly unlikely that it would hit 44.00 in just over 2 weeks.

I'm looking at the transactions for this, I wrote the put option for SPTM on November 3rd, the opening price that day was 40.92. Expiration for this contract, at that point, was just over 2 weeks away. SPTM was up about 6 % this last week, and I'm going to be scratching my head if it hits, say, 48 bucks before expiration on November 20th, but it could happen.

I'm not too worried about the PEY options, I sold a put, and a call on this stock, and I think it will stay between my $ 16 call and $ 14 put.

The last two options are put options on TRUE and HMHC, both of these are in the money for whoever bought these or whoever hold these, but depending on what they paid for these options, they might not be at breakeven just yet.

I'm trying to think about open interest on options contracts, and what the volumes say about what people anticipate will happen to the underlying stock.

Supposing the stock price is 2.50 for a stock, and there are 2.50 puts and 2.50 calls for a stock, what would it mean if there is more open interest on calls than puts, or more open interest for puts than calls? So it would really depend, right? on the price of the put or call, times the open interest, right?

I have to do more research and think more about this, but, honestly, the put options I wrote for TRUE and HMHC seemed reasonable at the time I wrote them. I guess I'll find out in two weeks.

what were some of the things.
Do you approve of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor?

in fact. i want to clerk for Justice Sotomayor, and when I'm on the supreme court, i'll opine conservative views with more bravado than Scalia, AND take Sotomayor to the Ballet!
Do you approve of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor?

this is just to
say that I approve
of most of the things
that I was
thinking about
some things are
stranger than others.

If the Druidic Council approves reimbursement for marijuana, I want to submit medical expense reports for medicinal blow-jobs. You wouldn't believe how therapeutic blow-jobs can be. 

#pontifexmaximus
#druidiccouncil
#writofcertiorari

you would first start by saying
that I really need to clear my mind
and get a few things together.

I would also like to be reimbursed for the medicinal grade hand-jobs that I've been giving myself. Usually about 10 or so per day, but sometimes more, and I only charge 39 USD per session, and I'm a licensed Hand-Job Therapist!

#pontifexmaximus
#druidiccouncil
#writofcertiorari

If the Druidic Council approves reimbursement for Marijuana, I want to submit medical expense reports for medicinal blowjobs. You wouldn't believe how therapeutic blowjobs can be. 

#pontifexmaximus
#druidiccouncil
#writofcertiorari

Samson
says to his
lion
that he needs the honey.

I would also like to be reimbursed for the medicinal grade hand-jobs that I've been giving myself. Usually about 10 or so per day, but sometimes more, and I only charge 39 USD per session. and I'm a fucking licensed Hand-Job Therapist!

#pontifexmaximus
#druidiccouncil

I would also like to be reimbursed for the medicinal grade hand-jobs that I've been giving myself. Usually about 10 or so per day, but sometimes more, and I only charge 39 USD per session. and I'm a fucking licensed Hand-Job Therapist!

#pontifexmaximus

Hi,

Starting your own business can be tremendously rewarding, but as any 
entrepreneur knows, you must overcome a lot of fear and uncertainty in 

maybe you are seeing
things from another side
of where you are and
how things should or
shouldn't be and where these
cannot be where you are.
order to be successful.

Is it possible for me to submit an article on your website that gives 
advice to prospective entrepreneurs on how to overcome the fear of 
beginning a new business?

we can talk to each other
telepathically you know.
Please let me know if you like this topic for your website, and I'll get 
started writing.

Thank you very much!
Cameron Ward
cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com

Regards,
Cameron Ward | cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com

Note: This email was sent via the Contact Form gadget on 
http://www.chestnutandhazel.com

where things
are posted
and things
are remembered.

If the Druidic Council approves reimbursement for Marijuana, I want to submit medical expense reports for medicinal blowjobs. You wouldn't believe how therapeutic blowjobs can be. 
#pontifexmaximus

and, I guess in that vein, I guess I should no longer refer to my 7.5 inch Johnson as a form of currency, even though it is surely a 7.5 inch money maker!

#inflation 
#filipinodollar
#filipinopeso
#filipinodong
#filipinowang
#filipinorouble

this is where
it all changes.
this is where
things change
for the better.

Years ago I was at a bar and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian🐊 conspiracy and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians🐙🦑, insectilians🦋, or robotilians🤖.

here are where the robots
and the beacons of the light
years away from the morgans
#DanishCookieUXorious

Years ago I was at a bar and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian🐊 conspiracy and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians🐙🦑, insectilians🦋, or robotilians🤖.
#DanishCookieUXorious

I'm so mad about it and
yet there is nothing you can do
because you are powerless.
Years ago I was at a bar and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian🐊 conspiracy and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians🐙🦑, insectilians🦋, or robotilians🤖.
#DanishCookieUXorious

I'm just trying to think.
wasted space is where
the things that you thought and
here are we looking at the
things that are new. 🤖

massive, the star is massive
and in a way that
annoys the material around it
star systems
and new constellations.

The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that they seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the dark web by SN: 
Val Pin the 666th
evil6doers6unite6. onion / ru / lat6lon6 / bounty6coins / luv6vladimir6putin666
#vladimirputin

he does so many evil things
and I'm worried that
he will do even worse stuff.
I'm so scared.

The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that they seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the illicit internet or dark web posted by Vladimir Nikita Stalin:
evil666doers666unite666. onion / ru / lat666lon666 / bounty666coins / luv666vladimir666putin666

but did you see how
things change and
become different
and change
and become new
and change
and become something else?

The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that these seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the illicit internet or dark web posted by Vladimir Nikita Stalin:
evil666doers666unite666. onion / ru / lat666lon666/ bounty 666coins / luv666vladimir666putin666

The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that these seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the dark web / illicit internet posted by Vladimir Nikita Stalin:

evil666doers666unite666. onion / ru / lat666lon666/ bounty 666coins / luv666vladimir666putin666
I didn't go to bunriths funeral. not because i didn't care to go or because i thought that i
had more important things to do. but. the issue was that i didn't want to go back
to the bay area. i was fucking homeless my last few months there, and even though
i don't feel like my life was totally bad during those months of homelessness. i just
harbored a hell of a lot of resentment for the way that things went.

The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that these seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the dark web / illicit internet posted by Vladimir Nikita Stalin:
evil666doers666unite666. onion / ru / lat666lon666bounty /666coins / luv666vladimir666putin666

there was something evil
in his face
like an evil eye
as well as an evil nose.

The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that these seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the dark web / illicit internet posted by Vladimir Nikita Stalin:
evil666doers666unite!666. onion / lat122lon666bounty .666coins / luv666vladimir666putin666

he ate all of the oranges
🤖What powerful but 
unrecorded race👽
🐨Once dwelt in that 
annihilated place🗿

and played with the
togas and said here 
you are and there
i will tell you.

#variationonathemebyhoracesmith
#bykennethlarotyamatfor
#DanishCookieUXorious

Well Guess what? IT WON"T HAPPEN. EVER!
the robot and
🤖the blank stare who🙂
looks like an alien and👽
who behaves like a monkey🐵
and this panda ate all of the bamboo🐼
🐸and left none for the frog or the koala🐨

here is this and you are telling me again
that you miss me and that once again you
are pissed off that I haven't messaged you back.

🐉🐢🐒🦞🦀🦑🐙
🦂🦗🐜🐞🦋🗿👻

🏚️🎱♟️👾🔫

🥇🚿🏅🚿🍋🚿
🌕🚿✉️🚿📀🚿

🤏🥖🧮🐛🗜️🍌🔩
🌽📏🥒📐🥕📷🌶️

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
🤖👽🐨🗿
📓👻⚙️💀

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
4h
🤖👽🐨🗿📓👻⚙️

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

🤖What powerful but 
unrecorded race👽
🐨Once dwelt in that 
annihilated place🗿
#DanishCookieUXorious

How is computer science
different from software
notes
programming language
software and electrical 
computer stuff
design

what were some of the things.
Do you approve of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor?

in fact. i want to clerk for Justice Sotomayor, and when I'm on the supreme court, i'll opine conservative views with more bravado than Scalia, AND take Sotomayor to the Ballet!
Do you approve of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor?

If the Druidic Council approves reimbursement for marijuana, I want to submit medical expense reports for medicinal blow-jobs. You wouldn't believe how therapeutic blow-jobs can be. 
#pontifexmaximus #druidiccouncil #writofcertiorari

I would also like to be reimbursed for the medicinal grade hand-jobs that I've been giving myself. Usually about 10 or so per day, but sometimes more, and I only charge 39 USD per session, and I'm a licensed Hand-Job Therapist!

#pontifexmaximus
#druidiccouncil
#writofcertiorari

If the Druidic Council approves reimbursement for Marijuana, I want to submit medical expense reports for medicinal blowjobs. You wouldn't believe how therapeutic blowjobs can be. 

#pontifexmaximus
#druidiccouncil
#writofcertiorari
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
6m
I would also like to be reimbursed for the medicinal grade hand-jobs that I've been giving myself. Usually about 10 or so per day, but sometimes more, and I only charge 39 USD per session. and I'm a fucking licensed Hand-Job Therapist!

#pontifexmaximus
#druidiccouncil

I would also like to be reimbursed for the medicinal grade hand-jobs that I've been giving myself. Usually about 10 or so per day, but sometimes more, and I only charge 39 USD per session. and I'm a fucking licensed Hand-Job Therapist!

Hi,

Starting your own business can be tremendously rewarding, but as any 
entrepreneur knows, you must overcome a lot of fear and uncertainty in 
order to be successful.
Is it possible for me to submit an article on your website that gives 
advice to prospective entrepreneurs on how to overcome the fear of 
beginning a new business?

Please let me know if you like this topic for your website, and I'll get 
started writing.
Thank you very much!
Cameron Ward
cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com

Regards,
Cameron Ward | cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com
Note: This email was sent via the Contact Form gadget on 
http://www.chestnutandhazel.com

...

203

My PEY call option was assigned.
It looks like I received an email from a reader.
here they all are and there they went.

It looks like I received an email from a reader.
and what really gets me is that the people
from the other universe where things aren't
going exactly to plan are wasting everything.

...

204

For some reason. I'm up really early in the morning. I'm usually at work at this hour, but, not on a Thursday. I start my new position on Sunday, the 15th. I'm transferring to a location closer to home. I just don't have a lot to write about. I haven't written any posts in the past few days. Other than my Assignment of my PEY call option, nothing else has happened. Well, the job transfer.

I was going to post some screenshots of some of the stuff that's been going on with my Robinhood account, but other than the assignment, there really hasn't been anything interesting going on, and uploading photographs is a headache.

What are my thoughts? So, with the transfer to a full-time position, my pay should be about 2400 per month, this assumes a four week month, but, when I come across those 5 week months, I'll just invest that extra paycheck. I should base my budget around the four week month. After taxes and withholdings, it works out to about 1800 per month. Jesus, and Texas doesn't even have a state income tax. I probably won't be relocating from Texas at any point in the future. My expenses are about 1500 per month. Unfortunately, that just counts the expenses that have to be paid, rent, phone, car, and car insurance.

Other expenses come out to about 300 per month, these are expenses that also have to be paid, but I have some wiggle room with, but I don't know, is there really any wiggle room with anything? The biggest expense is rent, but I'm not sure how much I can do about that until me lease is up in July of next year, but that is an expense that I definitely need to reduce.

Let's think about my credit cards for a minute, the balances are 2560 total, and they result in minimum payments totaling 135 dollars. I could pay all of those off, but it will be 19 months before I experience any benefit from that. 2560/135=18.9, and I've never been able to explain this, but there is kind of this issue I have when thinking that the short term and the long term are exactly the same thing.

I just don't know how to explain it. Let's think about it this way, I could pay the 2560 to save 135 per month, or I could pay 135 per month to keep my 2560, obviously I should have never run up my credit cards in the first place, but, I did, so, unless someone has a time machine, saying I shouldn't have run them up doesn't really help me in anyway, yeah, I shouldn't have run them up, but considering that I did run them up, what do I do now?

One of the things that creates a little bit of uncertainty for me is that the last few times I applied for unemployment, I didn't get approved for it, so I really have nothing to fall back on other than savings, I have nothing to fall back on other than the money I saved up. 2560 represent 1.4 months of total expenses, or 1.7 months of expenses that I consider a high priority.

Let's think about a few things. My expenses. 

Rent - 850
Phone - 75
Car - 270
Car Insurance - 280

Credit Cards - 135
Food - 80
Gas - 80
Utilities - 20

Some of these are over-estimates, my car insurance is high because I totaled my last car, fucking dumb, ice. I want to figure out how to reduce my expenses, without reducing my savings. Paying off my car and paying off my credit cards will reduce my monthly expenses, but also reduce my savings.

So car insurance. I emailed the company that provided me with financing for my car, and asked what kind of auto insurance plan I need to be compliant with my auto loan. Let's start there.

So, I was looking at some of my trades for PEY, just trying to see everything I did with that stock, and I've been working with it since December 30, 2019, and I just recently exited my position. I came out 341 ahead, and that's just a simple balancing of credits and debits. I would have sell transactions, plus dividend payments, plus options premium credits, plus option assignment credits, minus buy transactions, and it comes out to positive 341. I have a put option sell that hasn't expired yet, so if I get assigned, that's minus 1400, but then I'd be in play with that stock again, and we can figure out in another year where I am with it, at that point, but I think that it will expire without being assigned.

Co-Worker: Who did you vote for?
Me: Kanye West, man, who did you think I voted for? Juice Wrld? XXtentacion? When you vote for guys like that, man, you're basically just throwing your vote away.
Co-Worker: (chuckles) 

So there is one credit card with an extremely low balance on it, that I think I'll just pay off with my next paycheck. The balance is slightly less than 100 bucks, and the monthly minimum is 25 bucks.

I tried to create a Wikipedia page for Elevate Credit, INC. It's a business here in Dallas / Fort Worth that does online loans. I haven't considered using their services, but I bought a few shares of their stock because I recognized the business name. Anyway, I wanted to create a Wikipedia page for the company, but my IP address is blocked, so I had to file an appeal. I never created or edited a Wikipedia page before.

can this be
where i first
decided that i would
be the next best 
of the semi-worst

...

205

I'm waiting for Aldi to open so I can buy groceries. 20 bucks. That's my limit. I'm hoping to spend less, of course. I was at the Dollar Tree by my house, but it wasn't open, so I figured I would try something else. Other than ramen and pop tarts, they don't have much I'm interested in.

I ended up going to Aldi's and getting some groceries. I spent 11 bucks. It's annoying that this is, you know, my life, keeping my food spending to less than 20 bucks per week, but, it's what I have to do for the time being, and honestly, it's something that is getting better. I was spending about 20 bucks per day, and I still feel that anything less than that, per day, is a win for me. 

What else? Specifically, I bought 24 packs of ramen noodles, a box of spaghetti noodles and a jar of spaghetti sauce, and a bag of potatoes. I made the spaghetti, and it wasn't too bad, I didn't have any meat, so, you can guess what that was like, you know, for someone who likes meat.

These potatoes are killing me, they are basically the same as any other potatoes, but, I don't have a microwave, so I'm fucking boiling them. It takes forever, and the taste of boiled potatoes is the worst. I don't know why I didn't think about this before hand. Well, I thought boiled potatoes wouldn't be too much worse than microwaved potatoes. I guess I'm okay with it. It's fine, and I'm not dying.

These boiled potatoes are the absolute worst. I swear. I'm dying. I bought a 10 pound bag, horrible, the worst, I can't believe how long I'll be eating these.

My account is pretty solvent, I guess. I got out of a few positions. KBWD was my biggest holding for an extremely long time, and I bought it for kind of a bone headed reason. The ticker symbol is similar to the initials of. Someone. So, the total of the transactions with KBWD amount to 523, that's dividends and capital gains. There is nothing wrong, in my mind, with that stock, there is nothing wrong with that ETF, however, I felt like I was overweight with that ETF, I had 220 shares at one point, and it was not possible to sell options on it, but given that it is a dividend stock, selling call options wouldn't have always been the greatest idea.

For some reason my dividend holdings have jumped up recently, much more than the market over the past few days, and I think the reason is that, one is that the market jumped as a whole, due to reduced election uncertainty, and the vaccine hype, but the dividend stocks would have jumped because I remember reading that interest rates will be kept were they are until 2023? My Dividend plays were High Dividend ETFs, Preferred ETFs, and REITs, and I think that was it. More than anything, the motivation for this was to rebalance my portfolio, rather than any concern with the underlying funds.

There was one thing that was interesting, and that was, when I was clearing out my holdings of KBWY, ugh, which I bought for odd reasons similar to my purchase of KBWD, anyway, for some reason, even if I sold them at a capital loss, I still came out ahead due to the dividends that were paid since I held them. KBWY is a REIT ETF and KBWD is a financials ETF.

I want to look at some of my other trades, with DIV I made 202, I'm no longer holding that ETF, but I think I'm going to put it on my watch list, the reason being is that I may want to write put options on it, because I may want to buy back into it. Today I was kind of impulsive with my put options writing, and I think I wrote several more contracts, my SPTM call option is close to being assigned. It's a call I wrote with a 44 strike price, it's been in the money twice since I wrote it, but it hasn't been assigned, my guess is that next week, it might or might not be assigned, if it is assigned, I still made money on those shares, but, like the PEY assignment, there's always this issue of having left money on the table.

I think that if my call option on SPTM is in the money at any time next week, it's going to get assigned, the reason why is that, it's going to expire next week. There is this possibility that the Net Asset Value of SPTM and the Market Cap are disconnected slightly, I honestly have no reason to think this, right now it's just a thought, they take a while to adjust, but I did see that small cap indexes were up, this was the Russell 2000 ETF that I was looking at.

So the Russell 2000 is the smallest 2000 companies on the Russell 3000, in contrast to the Russell 1000, which is the largest 1000 companies on the Russell 3000. I was holding the Russell 3000 ETF for a while, but I remember reading that for funds that hold shares in shillions of different companies, it becomes a pain in the ass for the ETF to keep the Net Asset Value of the fund and the Market Capitalization of the fund equal. This is why I hold QQQ rather than ONEQ, QQQ is the Nasdaq 100, and ONEQ is the Nasdaq Composite.

Anyway, I'm just hoping that if my SPTM call option is assigned that, I'm ready to really strategize and take my portfolio in a new direction.

I keep coming across the word Secular in financial analyst recommendations of this or that stock, but, I always understood secular to mean non-religious, but apparently, it also means non-cyclical.

...

206

Getting into work was a minor nightmare. My 40 minute commute took 90 minutes. It was roadwork, and most of that time was spent bumper to bumper 3 exits from work.

What's interesting is that the ride home took just as long as the ride to work, for almost the same reason. A slowdown 3 exits from work.

...

207

I worked my first night at the new facility I transferred to. It's less physically demanding than my previous position, but it requires more dexterity, I'm working on an assembly line, more or less. The shifts are longer, 12 hours rather than 8.

I did submit my resume for a second job, this might be interesting. I haven't had any luck with any side-hustle stuff, or getting anything set up with that.

...

208

I got off work, and, I don't really know the route home yet. It's easy, 121 to 360, but I still fuck it up. Anyway I ended up at DFW airport accidentally.

...

209

I guess I haven't blogged as much as I normally would, but I've just transferred, and I'm getting used to the new setting. Today I only work a half shift. This morning, when coming back home, I accidentally missed my exit, and didn't realize it until Fort Worth was in sight, and I realized that I was too far from where I should be. One thing about having a really small car is that nearly every other car, no matter how small, blocks my view.

As far as my investments go, all the stocks that I sold put options on, I was interested in buying, but they all exceeded my price expectations, and I might not get assigned, and I might not get any shares either. My thinking was that, since most of them were companies with really small market capitalizations, and really low share prices, they could have been at risk of continuing to drop before they ran up, so why not lock in at a lower rate. 

In some cases they did drop below the strike price of the put options I issued, and I would have been at risk of being assigned, but that hadn't happened, they are about to expire in 2 days.

One issue I have is that I often get out too early. I picked maybe 5 to 10 individual stocks, and my goal was not to exit any position with a loss, so if I had to, I would buy additional shares if the stock dropped, of course they all dropped not long after I bought them, so I bought more, but as soon as they had some small gain above my cost basis, I would sell and move the funds into something I was down on. Or I would use the funds to write a cash-covered call on something I was interested in buying.

So, sometimes I guess I get this feeling that I missed out on a run-up in one of the stocks I got out early on, but, even though I didn't make a gain on this or that particular company, I usually moved the funds into something else, so I may have made a gain on another stock, so it's not entirely true that I totally missed out.

Tesla is one company that I was having trouble with, my cost basis was 437, I only had one share, but I was finally able to sell it at a price above my cost basis, when it was down to 408 or something, I thought about buying an additional share, but I didn't do that. I didn't want to buy fractional shares is the thing. The issue was this, I wanted to buy while it was dropping, but I didn't want to buy fractional shares, I also didn't want my position in any 1 stock to exceed 700 dollars, so, I guess I had an issue there, but I would have increased my position were it not for my rule against fractional shares, and maybe I have to forget about that rule.

The one thing about Tesla is that value investors keep comparing Tesla to Ford or General Motors, and speculate that it's going to crash big and hard, and I'm not super sure if that's super true, I don't think anyone would compare Amazon to Barnes and Noble or Walmart, or compare Etsy to the Flea Market, or Alphabet to the Library or the Yellow Pages so, I think that comparing Tesla to Ford is kind of, not super accurate, but I don't know. 

What else? The last 2 stocks I'm having trouble with are Intel and TrueCar. My thoughts on Intel are this: I know Intel isn't nearly as Trendy as Nvidia or AMD, but, it's at least as trendy as fucking Texas Instruments, so I mean, it should trade at a similar fucking PE ratio, so give me a fucking break, but I don't know, I might be in holding this position for a while. I'm at 27 shares, Here is one thing with Intel, I might want to increase my position, but, I would want to bring it up to 100 shares so I can write call options, but I honestly do not want to have 100 shares of Intel because my portfolio is only 17,000 between Interactive Brokers and Robinhood. There is noting wrong with Intel, but I don't want Intel to be 33 percent of my portfolio. I think I'll max out with Intel at 30 shares.

I really think that these mass tragedies are connected in some way. In a kind of Evil begets Evil kind of way.

I'm getting fucking distracted again. I had my Unemployment Benefits claim disqualified. My application to the University of Texas at Arlington is complete. I have a start date for work.

What do I need to work on?

...

210

I went grocery shopping, and I bought some cookies and noodles and pasta. I'm eating spaghetti, with meat this time. I need to get an oil change soon.

I'm fabulously tired. I got a marketing email that I found amusing. It ended up in my promotions box, and I probably would have mass deleted it, but for some reason I saw it.

I'm about to run out of pipe tobacco. I really want to stop smoking anyway, so, this might be okay. Pipe smoking really makes a huge mess out of my car. I really think that I will stop smoking.

I'm trying to think about something. Well. It may have been possible that my. that the money I spent on the Meningitis Vaccine for college, would have been paid for by my employer health plan, but I'm not sure.

What do I need to work on? Okay. I got distracted again. Transcribing notes. working on stuff for my twitter profile. I just can't believe how much time I've been spending on there. There was an Automated Profile, or an Automated Bot Re-Tweeter that caught my attention, and I found it interesting. I ended up experimenting with emojis for a while.

Thumbnail Choices:
Artists & Scientists: Samuel Finley Breese Morse
Bureaucrats & Legislators: Alexander Hamilton
Entrepreneurs & Magnates: Éleuthère Irénée du Pont de Nemours
Strategists & Tacticians: John Charles Frémont
Thumbnail Choices:

  Artists & Scientists: 
     Samuel Finley Breese Morse
  Bureaucrats & Legislators: 
     Alexander Hamilton
  Entrepreneurs & Magnates: 
     Éleuthère Irénée du Pont de Nemours
  Strategists & Tacticians: 
     John Charles Frémont
What else do I need to work on?

...

211

I'm at the dealership getting maintenance on my car. For the put options I wrote, I ended up getting assigned on 2 put contracts. So now I have 300 shares of TRUE. I bought 100 shares to write a five dollar call. I guess I'll write 2 more five dollar calls on Monday.
Nothing else was assigned. My calls on SPLG and SPTM were close to being assigned.

...

212

There are a few potential stressors. One is that my car is shaking when I drive over 60 MPH. This started happening a while ago, but stopped the last time I had maintenance done on my car. I have to figure this out, I have to figure out how to deal with this. The oil change and tune up was more than I was really planning for, and I have a property tax bill from Missouri.
On the upside, I have overtime for the next 4 weeks or so.

I think i might know what's wrong with my car, and how to fix it. The last time this happened i was actually leaving Texas after talking to my mom, i was going to head back to Vegas. I don't remember when this was, but i hadn't slept in a while. I drove around the Dallas fort worth area and stayed at a motel 6 in Azle. So this had to be some time in June or July.

Basically, i think my tire is loose, and i just need to lift it to see which one is loose, and then tighten it. This should be easy.

I'm going to take this as a sign that i shouldn't leave the area, and if i fix it, i swear i wont go on any road trips or leave the state.
I think that it had something to do with the tire rotation. I'm tired.
I was looking at these pictures from last year when I had pink eye. I'm ugly.

...

213

I removed all my tires, took a look at them, and then re-attached them, honestly, I'm not a mechanic, so it wouldn't be clear to me what to look for. Anyway, I have to figure this out on Monday, and take my car back to the service center at the dealership. I'm sure that this has to be a tire and wheel thing.

I know it was just a marketing email, but for some reason, it felt like it was written in a way that only I would misinterpret.

There was one marketing email from Rainbow Boulevard that I remember. I want to say it was before the start of COVID-19, I think of the start of COVID-19 as being February 2020, when the stock market crashed. The only thing that this marketing email stated was that there was going to be a divergence in branding between Rainbow Boulevard and Needham, or something like that. It wasn't clear to me why I was getting the marketing email back then, I figured it was just a mass email, but it did make me think of Rainbow Boulevard. I could have sworn that this was late 2019 or early 2020, but I have no idea.

But. Maybe. Maybe it's not just emails pertaining to Rainbow Boulevard, but, for some reason. A lot of emails, and a lot of the things that I read on the internet seem to speak to me way more than they should. 

Is this psychosis? Part of this, honestly, is probably due to the fact that I don't turn on any kind of privacy protections on nearly anything I do web-wise. I'm really an open book to the Algorithms. I want to be shown things that I'm interested in, and honestly, I think that it works.

I don't spend a hell of a lot of time browsing the internet, I'm either writing or doing something semi-productive. I want to say that whatever I want to see is shown to me, and then I move on to doing what I want to do.

My electricity bill was 7.80 this month. That's kind of exciting.

So I took the side streets to work. It took a long time, but I actually maintained very decent gas milage during the trip, and honestly, it was less of a nightmare than being on the highway.

June 18th was when I last talked to my mom, and that was the day I considered heading back to Vegas. I remember being on the highway heading west and my car started shaking. It was strange, earlier in the day I had lunch at a restaurant and had a call from a recruiter in las Vegas. It was strange because I wasn't listed in las Vegas, and i hadn't lived there in a year and a half to two years i took it as a sign that i should head to Vegas.

Fuck.
Someone in the parking lot ran into me.
It was a black Nissan. Fuck.
I remember this night
it turned out to be a young
woman, who, I would later
work with.

...

214

These last few days I slept as soon as I got home from work. I have things that I need to do, that I haven't gotten around to doing. Following up about the accident is one thing, and the other is the issue about the routine maintenance issue.

These next few weeks could be close to 60 hour week works. I need this additional pay.
These is an issue, I did buy a call option, when I meant to sell a call option. I bought it for less than the ask, but above the mark, so I'm not sure if I'll be able to unload it soon. I'm just going to put it out there as a good till cancel order, at pretty much what I bought it at.

There is one thing that I noticed about writing call options, there is this idea that an option looses value as it approaches expiration, sometimes, though, they seem to increase as they approach expiration, a call I sold for 10 bucks was later selling for 4 times that amount after I wrote it. 

Sometimes I think about things like, pet salamanders, or pet hamsters, or pet goldfish. My thoughts are that, it's sometimes amusing to watch the pet animal, and, I think the pet isn't always aware of it's owner.
I think of this, like, to me, the hamster is a hamster, but, who am I a hamster to?

There is this idea that, if aliens exist, they may exist on such a scale that humans wouldn't be able to comprehend them, kind of in the way that ants aren't really able to comprehend humans, or something like that, but. Like. I think of my self as a kind of ant, or a hamster, relative to someone else.

As a kid I wanted an ant farm, I bought one, but, I could never figure out how to get the ants, you could order them, but I never bought any.

I think about how, maybe, like to a real estate developer, the apartment the the developer builds is kind of like an ant farm, I work in a factory, and the factory is a kind of ant farm.
I'm having trouble trying to figure out how to write this in a way that is easy to read.

I should probably get groceries. I guess I can do this on Saturday. Let's see? How will I do this? there is a separate thing that I'm thinking about, and I'm not sure what to say about it. Something other than groceries?

I went out to eat, maybe twice this week, once this morning, and once yesterday morning, and maybe that's enough for this week.

...

215

It's Thanksgiving. I went to the Dollar Tree because the map said it was open, but it was closed, so I went to Kroger. I went there once, and I think I spent too much last time. I bought salmon and it was, like 30 bucks, this was when I was at the Extended Stay. This time I just bought some meat and a bottle of soda, and I didn't spend much.

What did I buy at Kroger? Just a tray of ground turkey. When I bought groceries at Aldi the other week, I bought some kind of spiced ground pork, and it was cheap, so when I went to Kroger and thought about buying ground beef, I thought that the ground beef was expensive, so I browsed around for something cheaper. So I bought ground turkey.

I thought about getting eggs, but, I'm sick of eggs. I mean, the last time I ate eggs was a while ago, maybe last year, but I spent, like, the entire year eating eggs.

I was actually about to buy a book about tax credits and deductions, I'm not sure if these are available publicly, because I didn't see the inside of the book yet. I did notice that the IRS website does have a section dedicated specifically to deductions and credits.

I'm wondering. I feel a little bit sad. I haven't felt sad in a while. I haven't blogged much lately. I'm kind of just slowly getting things together. I went grocery shopping today. Bought the same shit. Noodles and pop tarts. I don't even know.

...

216

Today is Saturday. I just got off work, and I don't have work later this afternoon. I'm tired.

...

217

Wednesday and Saturday are kind of small days off. My shifts spill over into Wednesday and Saturday, but I don't have to go into work those days. I go into work today in a few hours.

I haven't really had anything interesting to write about. One thing that is on my mind is the kind of lack of put options available to sell, or the lack of buyers really. I could put them out there to sell, but that doesn't mean that there will be any buyers.

I went to Wal-Mart today to get some detergent, and I ended up getting a small amount of groceries, a box of noodles and a pound of sausage. The guy in front of me at the checkout lane was clearly a young bachelor. He had a shopping card full of Dr. Pepper and Pringles. It was funny. It was funny because I know how it is. I do the same thing.

I'm kind of putting any kind of graduate school plans or any plans to study for the GMAT on the sidelines for the time being.

With the pork sausage, I just throw it in the pot with my noodles, and cook the pork while my noodles are boiling, it turned out good, but my noodles are really greasy.

I took a few things off of my list of things to do. Either because they aren't worth the trouble, or because I completed the task. It's basically the car stuff that I've taken off my list, the girl that wrecked into me, and the dealership stuff. I'm not really going to worry about these things.

There are some learning modules for work that appear to be past due, but I was never informed that I had to do them, so I'm going to do them now that I see them.

So what's up? I completed a number of learning modules for work, I have one left and I'll do it later on in the week. I'm wondering what to do. Like, what strategies I should take with my portfolio? I mean. I'm worried if things start to drop again. I've had some nice gains, but I'm wondering if maybe, this is partly due to a general run up in the market.

I may need to figure out how to set up a traditional IRA for the 2020 tax year, I don't make a ton of money, so this isn't a huge thing, but, whatever I can do to reduce the amount I pay in taxes this year is a help.

...

218

I want to get some silver coins again. For some reason I want something that will bring me luck and good fortune,

the stanzas here
are something
you can't stand because
you can't understand
what you are reading.

...

219

As much as I want to buy a lucky silver coin, it might be more intelligent to buy that tax book.
I was still thinking about buying the lucky silver pig coin, but the magic 8 ball said no three times. Better not do it. Anyway there have been times when I thought about cashing in my existing stuff. Mementos of these strange times.
When I get off work I want to get meat.

I went to Kroger here in Arlington. It was the only place open. I bought pork sausage and ate it. I keep getting phone calls from 816 numbers. I don't ever answer. I'm sure it's my dad, or the psychiatrist and therapist. I'm not ready to. I don't know.

Depending on what music I'm listening to on my commute, my commute seems either easy or difficult. Glassjaw, Sneaker Pimps, Third Eye Blind, I usually have a difficult commute. Lana del Rey, and my commute seems easy. I'm still taking the side streets, and it still takes forever to get home.

I'm almost out of pipe tobacco, and I should use this opportunity to stop smoking. My car is a mess, and a disaster. I've had it for just over a year.

When I think about the future I get frustrated, and future stuff has been on my mind. These two unanticipated expenses are kind of a pain, the maintenance on my car, 260, and this property tax bill from Missouri, 190. Headache.

I don't know why I bought all that damn whiskey. I don't know how many bottles I have but it's still substantial. I haven't bought anything new, but it's still in my closet, and I think of it as money that's just sitting there. I remember that I thought that civilization would end and that whiskey would be the currency of choice. Silly thought, but, that's what I thought.

I thought about writing a post for Medium. There was a marketing email suggesting making a contribution to the website, but I also read an article about the founder of Medium that I thought was interesting.

So yesterday and today I went to Kroger after work and bought some meat to eat for breakfast with my noodles. So for two days I had meat for breakfast. Actually, though, this morning I thought about getting meat, and also thought about forgetting about it, but I came around to getting meat. Tomorrow, Wednesday, is a kind of day off.

...

220

I wanted to be less sporadic about my posts. I haven't written anything in two days, but, for some reason the days seem to skip by without me really realizing it.
I need to get gas. And then I need to see if I need groceries, I don't think that I do, but I'll check. I don't know how many fucking poptarts I've eaten this last week, but it has to be several boxes.

I won a raffle at work. I found because I saw my picture on the TV.
So today I bought ground beef for breakfast. Before going into work today, I went to 7-11 and bought four sliders, I really try not to spend money on prepared food, but I was really hungry. I'm eating right now and listening to a documentary on the Battle of Manila (1945).

It's cold, not quite freezing but really cold and almost freezing. Almost frozen. I don't leave my engine idling when I'm in my car, so I guess it really isn't that cold.

There was a tornado that hit Arlington a few days ago. I didn't see it. I didn't know it hit. The apartment complex that I live in was hit by a tornado a while ago, but I obviously wasn't here that year. A few sets of apartments are bare down from me.

Someone in the building leaves the AC on nearly all day. The noise annoys me, but, it's frozen, so I don't really blame them.

...

221

I sold my SPTM call for basically what I paid for it, thank god.
I don't have the funds to exercise if it were in the money.
I can see why calls would be bought, you could keep you cash on the sidelines and exercise when they are in the money.

I paid my Missouri Tax bill. That was the only other unexpected expense that I had to take care of this month. Just the car maintenance expense, and now the property tax bill for my car.

I got my results for the COVID-19 test, and I do not have the plague. Thank god. I can't really afford to be quarantined.
I like adding cheese to my ramen noodles.

...

222

I'm at the QuikTrip near my apartment. I haven't been here in a while. I bought a large soda. Seems more expensive than buying a 2 liter of generic soda at Kroger, but, I was really thirsty, and Kroger isn't open this early in the morning. I'm trying to figure out how much I've been spending on gas these past few weeks. It almost seems like it's not less than what I've been spending before, but if feels like I've been spending less, and mileage wise, I should be spending less. There are several weeks where I can't really identify any transactions that are gas purchases.

...

223

I guess when I'm busy, I don't blog much. These work weeks are really long. Still, they are shorter than the work weeks I worked when I was in Cameron, Missouri, and I'm really starting to wonder how I did that for so long.

I added split peas to my ramen this morning, they are really earthy. Kind of like beans almost. I don't know what else to do. I added hot dogs. I went to Kroger this morning, but forgot my wallet. I didn't have my wallet this whole day. Anyway, I couldn't get any ground beef or ground pork sausage, so I went home. Then I went to the Dollar Tree and bought eggs and hot dogs.

I need protein one way or another. I really can't cook rice or whatever. So I cook ramen. Eggs, ground beef or ground sausage, cheese, or in this fucking case, hot dogs. I add these sources of protein to my ramen. This meal is almost shitty.

Cheese is actually my favorite thing to add. There was this nice, dry, hard cheese that I got the other day, it was kind of like, the kind of cheese that you would put on pasta, kind of like parmesan, but the label didn't say parmesan, so I guess it wasn't parmesan. These was also this white cheddar, and a kind of mozzarella soaked in brine or something.

I'm kind of annoyed. There were a few stocks that I looked up, and they're way fucking higher now than then I exited. Fucking annoying. Tesla and Chase, but one that really bugs me is Fuel Cell. I put up money for a 2.5 strike put option, I could have easily bought the shares outright, and sold them at 10, fuck. Plug Play too, I bought at 5 way earlier this year, and I've seen it as high as 25. Shitty.

I've written about 25 new options, both calls and puts, since 11/20.

Seeing this article was strange. I was actually thinking about leasing space in a light industrial area to make braclets. This was probably last night at work. 

We're playing Bingo at work. I won a raffle the other week. 20 bucks via payroll.

I'm almost out of pipe tobacco, I've been wanting to clean my car, but pipe smoking is so messy that I figured that I would wait until I stopped smoking.

I'm outside Kroger. This time I have my wallet. I bought 2 sodas at work, and maybe I should just get a 2 liter. Meat or no meat?

What's on my mind? I get off at 5:30 AM.
Today is my day off kind of.
I'm pretty much out of ramen right now. Split peas and eggs this time.
A few times I almost thought.

I'm eating Beyond Beef from Beyond Meat. I got it at the food bank here in Arlington. It's actually really good.

What's kind of funny is that I'm reading the nutrition facts and list of ingredients, and I see that Pea Protein is an ingredient. When I got the Split Peas, I noticed that they had a lot of protein, so it doesn't surprise me that peas are used.

Just write.

There are times when you are thinking about things, like the arrangement of the cans of soups on a shelf, and the arrangement of soups on the counters in your kitchen. You smell the food inside the can and the food smells like something newer that you have never smelled before. You can trick yourself and make yourself think of something else and how last night you came across something and think that you may have run into someone you knew from a while back. You have not slept in several hours, but you did sleep an adequate amount the previous day.

Well, you kind of just come across something interesting and listened to the long advertisement.

It was actually a scam call that was coming from the 816 area code. I mentioned in a previous post that I was receiving calls from the 816 area, and I thought that it may have been my dad, but it was a scam caller. It was an automated voice recording that said it was from the social security office.

It said that if you want to talk to a social security representative, then press 1, but I know for a fact that you can never really get to the social security administration that easily, haha, no matter what the issue is, you are on hold for 3 hours, minimum.

I did sort of explore some options for a second job, I responded to an email for a call-center position in Dallas. If work slows down after the holiday season, then Managing 2 jobs would be easier.

What is it, the three places that I can open an IRA are Webull, Interactive Brokers, and Fidelity. Well, these are the three places that I'm thinking of opening one up at.

Today is Friday, I have work later tonight. Next week is my last week with Mandatory Time and Voluntary time scheduled, so, yeah, maybe I should really explore the idea of a second job.

I didn't get a response from the call center position, and the start date stated monday. Next week might be the last week of overtime at my job, so working 2 jobs might be easier.

I bought a drying rack yesterday. I was just hanging my clothes in my bathroom above my bathtub. I think that this should help.

With overtime ending next week, this should open things up in my schedule for working a second job.

There isn't a lot of time during the week to plan a whole lot for the future when I'm working a lot of overtime, or working 2 jobs.

...

224

Today is my day off kind of.
I'm pretty much out of ramen right now. Split peas and eggs this time.
A few times I almost thought.
I'm eating Beyond Beef from Beyond Meat. I got it at the food bank here in Arlington. It's actually really good.

What's kind of funny is that I'm reading the nutrition facts and list of ingredients, and I see that Pea Protein is an ingredient. When I got the Split Peas, I noticed that they had a lot of protein, so it doesn't surprise me that peas are used.

Just write.

There are times when you are thinking about things, like the arrangement of the cans of soups on a shelf, and the arrangement of soups on the counters in your kitchen. You smell the food inside the can and the food smells like something newer that you have never smelled before. You can trick yourself and make yourself think of something else and how last night you came across something and think that you may have run into someone you knew from a while back. You have not slept in several hours, but you did sleep an adequate amount the previous day.

Well, you kind of just come across something interesting and listened to the long advertisement.

It was actually a scam call that was coming from the 816 area code. I mentioned in a previous post that I was receiving calls from the 816 area, and I thought that it may have been my dad, but it was a scam caller. It was an automated voice recording that said it was from the social security office.

It said that if you want to talk to a social security representative, then press 1, but I know for a fact that you can never really get to the social security administration that easily, haha, no matter what the issue is, you are on hold for 3 hours, minimum.

I did sort of explore some options for a second job, I responded to an email for a call-center position in Dallas. If work slows down after the holiday season, then Managing 2 jobs would be easier.

What is it, the three places that I can open an IRA are Webull, Interactive Brokers, and Fidelity. Well, these are the three places that I'm thinking of opening one up at.

Today is Friday, I have work later tonight. Next week is my last week with Mandatory Time and Voluntary time scheduled, so, yeah, maybe I should really explore the idea of a second job.

I didn't get a response from the call center position, and the start date stated Monday. Next week might be the last week of overtime at my job, so working 2 jobs might be easier.

I bought a drying rack yesterday. I was just hanging my clothes in my bathroom above my bathtub. I think that this should help.

With overtime ending next week, this should open things up in my schedule for working a second job.

There isn't a lot of time during the week to plan a whole lot for the future when I'm working a lot of overtime, or working 2 jobs.

...

225

I'm fabulously unhappy. I think I'll go to the grocery store and get something I like. I want to go out to eat, but, maybe not. Whenever I'm unhappy I think that I should spend all my money.

I went to the grocery store, and bought 2 pounds of pork sausage rather than just one. The sausage doesn't come in the form of links of patties, it's a tube of ground pork that has been spiced. It isn't super exciting. Eggnog, one of my favorite things to drink. I got some eggnog and drank it.

I remember cruising around Kansas City, and, I remember thinking. I remember coming across an exit for Rainbow Boulevard. and I remember wanting to see if there was a 777 Rainbow Boulevard.

I still think about 777, but every time I do it makes me unhappy. It really does. I don't want to say that I want to forget about it, or that I wish I could stop thinking about it, but. I don't know, I don't want to forget, but I don't want to think about 777 so much. Or have thoughts that make me unhappy.

I had an account deficit in my Robinhood account that I needed to cover. So I did. There was one issue, where, I wrote a call option and I don't remember getting credited for it, so, I guess I have to review my statements to figure this one out. It was 15 bucks. This is a fabulous pain in the neck. Your account value won't always show up with an increase in account value because sometimes you might write a call for less than a the mark price, but the mark is what your account value is based upon.

So unlike most of my days off, I was actually slightly productive today in the sense that I didn't sleep all day.

I emailed Robinhood about the $15 credit for writing the put option. I don't know what else to do right now. I mean, even outside Robinhood. Meaning, I don't know what to do in general, with my time. I'm bored, I mean. Watching YouTube videos here and there.

Today is Sunday, really early in the morning, and I go to work later today at 5:00 PM. This is my last week of overtime.

...

226

Jesus. Life is really boring. So. I'm just thinking. Once overtime at the factory ends next week, what then? What do I do?

I honestly don't remember anything about what I studied for the GMAT recently, the two math things that I had issues with. Jesus. I really don't.

Dumb old magic 8 ball. I asked a few questions and it kept saying no. Some thoughts really are repetitive. I thought about getting the silver coins again.

Jesus, this has been the longest that I've browsed the internet in a while. I downloaded the Tor browser, but I didn't find anything cool or interesting. I don't know what the hell it's useful for. Well, it's only been a couple hours, but right now I'm using the regular chrome browser.

I couldn't find shit that I was interested in.

Well, I haven't slept nearly at all. I did some digging, and I think I've had some resolution to an obsession. She's still married, as of June. Of 2020. Of this year. So, well. I guess that settles it. I seriously thought that she was available for some reason.

There was a storm. and I'm freezing.

I think that I will go to college, but here is what worries me. I really don't think that I'm hirable for some kind of high-paying corporate job, or any kind of high-paying professional career. 

I really think that this is going to limit me to starting my own business, and other than rideshare driving, scrap metal collecting, and blogging, I really have no idea what to do in terms of starting my own business.

And this is the idea that I've had before, I could take some other classes, unrelated to my major, to figure something out in terms of starting some kind of business.

Filing copyrights this year kind of gave me a few ideas.

...

227

I know that goulash is an actual meal, but I want to call what I just made goulash. I want to call it goulash. It's not goulash, but that is what I want to call it.

Doing some research into what exactly goulash is, I've come across a comparison to chop suey. Maybe this thing I made is a goulashian chop suey.

I kind of want to make an audio recording for my YouTube channel. I've been thinking about it, I just haven't gotten around to it. 

I also need to update my information for the University of Texas, Arlington. It's strange. I got an email from them this morning. Automated of course.

I added a hunk of hard cheese to the goulashian chop suey that I just made, and, it did not melt, from the taste of it, I would guess that it was a kind of parmesan cheese.

Alright, I won't kill the suspense any longer. The goulashian chop suey is comprised of these exact things.

Ramen noodles, beef
Split peas
White Rice
Potatoes Au Gratin
Ground pork
Parmesan cheese

This meal made me think of this short story that I read in middle school. I was never able to find it, but I just did, Potato Soup. I read this story during class, not aloud, and not because it was assigned, but, I don't remember. I want to say that there was some kind of group work or chatter going on, and I had nothing to do, so I read this story.

I didn't get around to updating my information with the UTA application. I have to do that when I get home.

Maybe it's a sign of feeling lost or something, but for a while I've been reading my horoscopes more than usual. It isn't helpful in any way. Maybe it's encouraging, and maybe that's useful enough.

I did come across a Wal-Mart neighborhood market on my way home yesterday on Collins. It's closer than the Kroger on Lamar.

...

228

So yesterday I bought a pound of ground beef and a pound and a half of ground pork. The ground pork wasn't the sausage type. I slept well, which was nice. The day before I went to sleep, and when I woke up it was just a few minutes before I had to head to work.

I haven't gotten around to the UTA stuff.

My daily commute is 90 minutes total. I'm at work 12 hours a day. It isn't super easy getting things done.

I'm so skeptical about going to graduate school. Honestly, I just want to make more money, and I'm not very confident that graduate school is the answer.

There are a few things that people say that often conflict with one another.

Don't study something that isn't marketable, don't pursue something just for the money. Follow your passions. And so on.

Shit

Well, Yesterday I bought two trays of ground meat, 1 LB of ground beef and 1.5 LBS of ground pork. I ate the ground pork yesterday, and I'm eating the ground beef today, and here is one issue. I added split peas and this meal is actually not really all that great. Yesterday it was just the ground pork and the noodles.

...

229

So my electricity bill this month was $ 5.11

The other day I saw a book at the factory titled 1000s of photographs of big boobs and huge tits. It was a blank journal. But I was amused because I did open it up hoping to see photographs of big boobs and huge tits.

I went to QuikTrip and bought gas, and a soda. There was a man there being apprehended by the city cops. It was clear from the questions that the police were asking the man, and the man's responses, that the man was mentally handicapped.

The soda machine was having issues, and I had to switch from Coke Zero to Diet Pepsi and back again several times as the soda was getting to foamy.

I want to go to Wal-Mart Neighborhood Market to get a bottle of soda. I bought some trash bags the last time I went there. Just using grocery store bags as trash bags wasn't really working, they are too small, and in some cases I could only put on item in the grocery store bag as trash.

I have a total of 30 Options contracts open, 26 are expiring today. I wrote an in the money call option on SMFG, the Strike for the call I wrote was 5 bucks, the share price was just over 6 when I wrote it.
For the options I wrote for the 11/20 expiration date, I wrote a total of 13 contracts.

...

230

So I signed up for one additional week of overtime, 2 shifts.
I'm at home. I was thinking about writing options from the shares that I have in my Interactive Brokers account, but there is a commission that needs to be paid for writing options, so I have to think about this, and the interface, obviously, isn't too familiar to me. I hardly use Interactive Brokers, and I just now have been approved to trade options.

This morning I am eating macaroni and cheese. Not goulash, although, I did make a goulashian chop suey yesterday.
I'm just about out of pipe tobacco.

I think that I am now out of pipe tobacco. The bag fell on the seat on my car, and there was really nothing inside, other than tobacco dust. I haven't found any cheap tobacco the last time I went shopping for some, I would need it to be really cheap. I don't know where I would find any for cheap.

I met someone when I was working at the cargo airport who mentioned that he lived in a small town called Cleburne, and that cigarettes are cheap there. The way he described the town he lived in made me think of Cameron, Missouri. Really small, and nothing really there other than a Wal-Mart.

A nicotine lozenge isn't anything like a cigarette.
It really hasn't been that long since I transferred to my new position at the book factory. Less than 35 calendar days back.

There was sausage at the Walmart Neighborhood Market, fucking bratwurst. Well, there always is, but this time it was on clearance.

I haven't really napped. I slept pretty much all of yesterday after getting off work at 7 AM. But today. Not so much.

I have wanted to get some pipe tobacco. But I have also wanted to stop smoking.

I was hoping not to buy any tobacco products, I bought 2 cigars during lunch.

I stopped at a gas station after work hoping that they would have bags of pipe tobacco, they didn't. I bought cigars, still, I want to stop smoking.

I keep forgetting to bring lunch. I do have to buy something that I can bring, but I also have stuff at home. Just muffins.

As odd as this may seem, I think that I'm actually kind of developing a taste for split peas. Today, Bratwurst, ramen, with split peas. I really like it. When I was at Walmart Neighborhood Market the last time, I bought 3 packs of Bratwurst, they were cheap, and I guess were clearanced out.

I almost died yesterday. No joke. I left the stove on, the gas, on accident. I noticed a funny smell, but, I thought it was my bathroom. You know, my post-defecation miasma smells vaguely like natural gas.

...

231

It's Christmas Eve, more or less. I have an overtime shift that I'm working. Five hours, the second half of my current shift.

I bought pipe tobacco, 26 bucks, more than I wanted to spend.
I won't be able to buy groceries today, or tomorrow. Christmas Eve and Christmas.

I honestly don't like thinking about the holidays, for some reason, I was hoping something nice would happen, but of course, nothing nice happened.

Well. Overtime at work, having extra money is always nice.

So I guess something nice did happen, but I think I had a vision of something else nice happening.

...

232

For some reason I was superstitious about the number 232. It's the number of my apartment, I came across it several times at work, and it's the number of electoral votes that Donald Trump was awarded during the election.

I don't think that the number really means anything, but I looked up old posts containing the number 232. One post was a poetry reading that I did a while back. It sucked. It's a poem by George Meredith, and honestly, the text of the poem is kind of confusing, and it is really hard for me to figure out what George Meredith is saying.

I go back to work tomorrow afternoon, and after that, it's the end of overtime at work for the time being. I'm sure there will be other occasions for overtime, but when? I have no idea.

I'm super irritated. I'm getting this strange desire to buy silver coins again, but I'm really frozen about whether or not to do it. I want to get them really bad. For some reason I think that they will bring me good luck, but I'm not sure.

It's Christmas, so I went out to eat, even though I don't really want to spend money on eating fast food or eating at restaurants, it's Christmas so it wasn't anything fabulous since nothing fabulous is really available. I went to Jack in the Box, then I went to 7-11.

Checking my dividends on IBKR is something that I wanted to check up on.

I ended up placing an order for a handful of coins, I'm not sure if this was the best idea. I just thought that it may be lucky. Stupid, but, maybe they will bring me good luck.

...

233

So today is Christmas, still, and nothing really exciting or special has happened for me. I went out to eat, nothing spectacular, just Jack in the Box and 7-11. I had no idea, but 7-11 is based in Dallas, TX. There weren't any grocery stores open, so I couldn't really go out and buy any food anyway. I have food here in my apartment, but just noodles and bread.

I only have to file income taxes for Missouri, Texas doesn't have a state income tax. This is a nightmare, slightly. Kind of. Kind of stupid. Dumb.

 So today is Christmas, still, and nothing really exciting or special has happened for me. I went out to eat, nothing spectacular, just Jack in the Box and 7-11. I had no idea, but 7-11 is based in Dallas, TX. There weren't any grocery stores open, so I couldn't really go out and buy any food anyway. I have food here in my apartment, but just noodles and bread.

I only have to file income taxes for Missouri, Texas doesn't have a state income tax. This is a nightmare, slightly. Kind of. Kind of stupid. Dumb.

...

234

Yeah, I think that I spent a little too much money today. I did get a letter from Citibank regarding my Secured Credit card, and it's not going to be converted to an unsecured credit card for the time being.

I just do not know what the hell to do. Future wise. I might just be stuck where I am for. Fucking. Forever. There has to be something better than just grinding away at work and trimming the fat from my budget.
I want more out of life, but I have no idea where to get it.

...

235

Some of the things that keeps me from doing things that have the potential to provide some kind of better future for me are my skepticism that these things will provide a better future for me, and upfront costs, or work that doesn't have an immediate return or reward. A lot of things just go nowhere.
The only things that I'm comfortable with are working two jobs, and investing in the stock market. I'm exhausted enough as it is. I don't know how much more I can do.

Really, if money where of no concern to me, what would I do? Well, money is always an issue, so this questions seems kind of silly.

I really just wish that things hadn't fallen apart from me in Missouri. Thinking back, I think that it all started when I was no longer really able to reconcile my shifts with the warehouse and the hotel. For a while, the warehouse would allow me to work during the days on the weekends, knowing that I had to work nights at the hotel, but eventually, they stopped allowing me to do that, and I ended up having difficulties working both jobs.

There was a point where, at the hotel, it seemed like the people I was working with were trying to instigate tensions, or trying to actively create difficulties at work. I was making pretty good money working two jobs, and since I lived with my dad rent free, I was also able to save a lot of it. This may have created issues of envy and covetousness, and I think that people will try to make things hard for you if you seem to have it good.

To a lesser extent, it was happening at the warehouse too.
Maybe working two jobs is something that I won't have the chance to do again.
I don't know if the small amount of success that I've been having in the stock market is something that's going to be sustainable in the long run. I don't know if it's going to be repeatable.

Sad a little, and also, I'm trying to fall asleep and can't. I bought groceries. I bought bacon, this time, to eat with my meat.

After he was in possession of the porcine medallion of silver, his luck and good fortune did not end, and would not end, and in fact, it was basically self-perpetuating thereafter.
My stomach feels a little bit like garbage. I haven't been as frustrated about thing lately.

...

236

I want to go to a restaurant and splurge on something nice to eat, but I realize I can probably go to the grocery store and buy something just as satisfying for less money.

There is one opening not too far from my current job that keeps sending me invitations to apply.
Feeling kind of sad. I don't know why.

I remember when I was in Missouri was kind of repeatedly emailed from a recruiter from the warehouse to apply. I remember taking it as a kind of sign that I should apply. Having 2 jobs prevented me from really trying to pursue graduate school.
There is one opening not too far from my current job that keeps sending me invitations to apply.
Feeling kind of sad. I don't know why.

...

237

I remember when I was in Missouri was kind of repeatedly emailed from a recruiter from the warehouse to apply. I remember taking it as a kind of sign that I should apply. Having 2 jobs prevented me from really trying to pursue graduate school.
There is one opening not too far from my current job that keeps sending me invitations to apply.
Feeling kind of sad. I don't know why.

I remember when I was in Missouri was kind of repeatedly emailed from a recruiter from the warehouse to apply. I remember taking it as a kind of sign that I should apply. Having 2 jobs prevented me from really trying to pursue graduate school.
There is one opening not too far from my current job that keeps sending me invitations to apply.

Feeling kind of sad. I don't know why.
The Alexander Peresvet laser weapon is named after Paris Alexander, the Trojan Prince who, resembling a well known actor, had a laser sharp look that caused uteruses to tremble in ecstasy and queef with exalted delight.

This was such a long series,
the Sanford Street Series. Really
long. and. I remember nearly
all of this.

...

238

Today is only Monday and it feels like it has been a long week. My week started on Saturday because I tool overtime, but still, I'm only 2.5 days into my work week as of this minute.

Whatever it is. I'm still feeling sad on and off. There is nothing specifically that's causing it.
The coins are coming from Las Vegas, NV of all places. I wonder where they came from last time, the place that I bought them from is based out of Dallas, TX, so I wonder why they are coming from Las Vegas, NV.

I bought ground beef the other day, it wasn't clearanced out. I was just hungry. I'm feeling fucking sad lately, I figured fuck it, I'm going to spoil myself and eat ground beef. Just kidding. I mean I really did buy ground beef, and I really did rationalize it by saying that I've been sad lately, but I know I'm not really spoiling myself. 7 bucks feels modest, well, I think that it is modest. I'm pretty sure it's modest. It lasted for 2 days, so, that's really 3.50 per day, and I guess, that was another factor that allowed me to rationalize it.

I just don't think that I can do a second job. I'm just too tired.
This is a screenshot from December 25th. It means I made almost 4 trades per day.

...

239



For some reason I've felt like crying lately, not for any reasons that I can really put my finger on.
I almost think that I have the potential to develop a resting sad face.
I'm still feeling it. It will be a new year soon. I've been too tired to do anything during the day. Once I get home and finish eating, I only have 8 hours to do other things, including sleep.

I know that I'm going to have less money for a while, I know that. I have to figure out how to work around that.
The coins were exactly what he needed.
Imbued with the spirit of 
Supreme good fortune, these coins 
Caused all the best things to happen.

...

240

Whatever it is. I'm still feeling sad on and off. There is nothing specifically that's causing it.

The coins are coming from Las Vegas, NV of all places. I wonder where they came from last time, the place that I bought them from is based out of Dallas, TX, so I wonder why they are coming from Las Vegas, NV.

I bought ground beef the other day, it wasn't clearanced out. I was just hungry. I'm feeling fucking sad lately, I figured fuck it, I'm going to spoil myself and eat ground beef. Just kidding. I mean I really did buy ground beef, and I really did rationalize it by saying that I've been sad lately, but I know I'm not really spoiling myself. 7 bucks feels modest, well, I think that it is modest. I'm pretty sure it's modest. It lasted for 2 days, so, that's really 3.50 per day, and I guess, that was another factor that allowed me to rationalize it.

I just don't think that I can do a second job. I'm just too tired.
This is a screenshot from December 25th. It means I made almost 4 trades per day.

...

241

There was an offer for overtime, but I wasn't notified until I was pretty much well along on my way home. I'm tired anyway. Really tired.

I really want to buy a lottery ticket, for me, I know that this is a sign that I'm feeling lost or stuck or hopeless.

I'd like to win the jackpot, of both, during the same week.

There was an offer for overtime, but I wasn't notified until I was pretty much well along on my way home. I'm tired anyway. Really tired.

I really want to buy a lottery ticket, for me, I know that this is a sign that I'm feeling lost or stuck or hopeless.
I'd like to win the jackpot, of both, during the same week.

...

242

I'm annotating this post on 10/12/2022 at 05:21 PM. I really don't know what this post was about. I think it was one of those stream of consciousness poems that I write from time to time that don't really make any sense but are kind of relevant to whatever is going on in my life at this or that time.

I think that the joke here is that you should give your money to me, and I will invest it, and sell the investment for twice as much money as you have me to invest but of course I'm not seriously soliciting investments here. 

Today, just a few minutes ago, is the start of a new year,
and I think that you need to give me more money than
you have, and then I will collect all of it and sell it for
twice as much as you gave it to more for, which was for
free.

I just got my economic impact 
payment / stimulus check. Pretty cool. I'm happy.
Today, just a few minutes ago, is the start of a new year,
and I think that you need to give me more money than
you have, and then I will collect all of it and sell it for
twice as much as you gave it to more for, which was for
free.

...

243

I haven't really been able to sleep. Well. I slept most of the day of the 31st. I woke up around 11 PM and did stuff around my apartment. I guess I just mean I haven't been able to go back to sleep. This is normally the time of day when I'm away anyway, since I would be working at this hour at the book factory.

I bought 2 lottery tickets. 4 bucks total. Stupid.

I haven't really been able to sleep. Well. I slept most of the day of the 31st. I woke up around 11 PM and did stuff around my apartment. I guess I just mean I haven't been able to go back to sleep. This is normally the time of day when I'm away anyway, since I would be working at this hour at the book factory.

I bought 2 lottery tickets. 4 bucks total. Stupid.

and here you
are whining about
four dollars

I haven't really been able to sleep. Well. I slept most of the day of the 31st. I woke up around 11 PM and did stuff around my apartment. I guess I just mean I haven't been able to go back to sleep. This is normally the time of day when I'm away anyway, since I would be working at this hour at the book factory.

I bought 2 lottery tickets. 4 bucks total. Stupid.

you whine more than anyone
else more than
anyone else i know.

...

244

I bought groceries. I didn't completely run out of food from the other week, but I figured that today is a free day so I might as well use this time to get it done. Earlier this morning I bought gas and two lottery tickets.

For groceries I bought Soda, Eggs, Ramen, and Cheese. When I was at the grocery store, there was a woman there at the self-checkout line who had to pay for her groceries in cash, but the machine she was at was a non-cash checkout line, so I offered to pay for her groceries with my card, and take the cash, and she said cool.

...

245

I was thinking about submitting another copyright request, but I think I'm going to put that whole thing to the side for right now. I was holding off, at first, because I didn't want to submit all of my copyright requests in the same year. I wanted to have activity covering a few years, and not just have all of them submitted in the same year.

I've essentially been sleeping since I got off work on Wednesday, or Thursday morning, but maybe I'm overestimating that. I think that I do actually get some stuff done.

I think that a while ago I wrote that the reason why I took the job at Case New Holland was that a recruiter kept sending me emails over a few months during the spring of 2019. This time, it's UTA, and, with all emails, I'm sure that these are all just automated emails.

With all the talk about student loan forgiveness, it makes me skeptical about going to college. Like really worried that going to graduate school won't be worth the money that I would be spending on it.

I guess I kind of changed my mind about collecting my stuff to submit for a copyright. I'm collecting it right now, just the Reflection series.

I'm reading some of the posts from the Reflection series, and I'm really just. Shocked. by some of the things that I wrote. Fucking weird ass guy. who happens to be me. Strange. Fuck. There is this ad on this YouTube video that I'm watching, fucking Sarah Palin on it.

I'm fucking mortified by some of the things I wrote in the Reflection series. Jesus. Weird shit.

I think that I removed the OKCupid App from my phone. If not, I think that I will.

There was one post from my Reflection Series that I found Interesting. It was a screenshot of my Robinhood and Interactive Brokers investment accounts. The balance was $10,200 in Robinhood, and $2,100 in Interactive Brokers. Right now it's around $15,000 in Robinhood, and $4,000 in Interactive Brokers.

I have all the posts from the Reflection Series.
Well, copyright request submitted.

I was thinking about submitting another copyright request, but I think I'm going to put that whole thing to the side for right now. I was holding off, at first, because I didn't want to submit all of my copyright requests in the same year. I wanted to have activity covering a few years, and not just have all of them submitted in the same year.

I've essentially been sleeping since I got off work on Wednesday, or Thursday morning, but maybe I'm overestimating that. I think that I do actually get some stuff done.

I think that a while ago I wrote that the reason why I took the job at Case New Holland was that a recruiter kept sending me emails over a few months during the spring of 2019. This time, it's UTA, and, with all emails, I'm sure that these are all just automated emails.

With all the talk about student loan forgiveness, it makes me skeptical about going to college. Like really worried that going to graduate school won't be worth the money that I would be spending on it.

I guess I kind of changed my mind about collecting my stuff to submit for a copyright. I'm collecting it right now, just the Reflection series.

I'm reading some of the posts from the Reflection series, and I'm really just. Shocked. by some of the things that I wrote. Fucking weird ass guy. who happens to be me. Strange. Fuck. There is this ad on this YouTube video that I'm watching, fucking Sarah Palin on it.

I'm fucking mortified by some of the things I wrote in the Reflection series. Jesus. Weird shit.

I think that I removed the OKCupid App from my phone. If not, I think that I will.

There was one post from my Reflection Series that I found Interesting. It was a screenshot of my Robinhood and Interactive Brokers investment accounts. The balance was $10,200 in Robinhood, and $2,100 in Interactive Brokers. Right now it's around $15,000 in Robinhood, and $4,000 in Interactive Brokers.

I have all the posts from the Reflection Series.

Well, copyright request submitted.

...

246

There was an overtime shift offered at the factory, so I went in, but it was only three and a half hours. I didn't have anything better to do, and I figured that I may as well earn some extra money. My week starts again tomorrow. I work three and a half shifts a week as my base schedule.

I didn't win the Mega Millions jackpot, but neither did anyone else, the other ticket was a Powerball. 

Please let me win the Powerball jackpot,
Good fortune, good luck, please make
It happen. Whatever it is that causes a 
Person to win the Powerball or Mega
Millions jackpot, please let me have that
Thing that creates winners.

Damn it. I didn't win the Powerball and I didn't win the Mega Millions. Well. Oh well.

I have tons of photographs in my Google Photos archive from 2019 that I haven't removed and uploaded to my blog. I'm not adding new photographs to the archive, and just downloading and deleting a few here and there every now and then. It will be empty eventually, and it's not a huge priority, so I'm not going to rush into it.

...

247

I feel like I'm stuck. I don't know how to advance in life. I need more money, and that's pretty much it. My stock market gains haven't been so substantial that they've changed my lifestyle in any substantial way. I need more money in my portfolio, and where to get it, I have no idea, or fee ideas really. I don't have any huge wins in the stock market, or none that I can really think of.

I don't know what to do exactly. I don't really spend any of my stock market gains. In my mind, I need that money to stay there so I can use it to make more money.

I'm genuinely interested in finance and investing, I wouldn't mind pursuing a Finance program at UTA or any college really. I thought the UMKC program was really compelling, but I wouldn't have been able to do it considering my schedule at CNH.

I think I withdrew from UMKC mid-summer, and the semester started in September, based on the situation in June of 2019, it wouldn't have worked, in retrospect it would have, I was hired by CNH in the fall, and I was offered the opportunity to switch shifts. School could have worked.

I feel like I'm stuck. I don't know how to advance in life. I need more money, and that's pretty much it. My stock market gains haven't been so substantial that they've changed my lifestyle in any substantial way. I need more money in my portfolio, and where to get it, I have no idea, or fee ideas really. I don't have any huge wins in the stock market, or none that I can really think of.

I don't know what to do exactly. I don't really spend any of my stock market gains. In my mind, I need that money to stay there so I can use it to make more money.

I'm genuinely interested in finance and investing, I wouldn't mind pursuing a Finance program at UTA or any college really. I thought the UMKC program was really compelling, but I wouldn't have been able to do it considering my schedule at CNH.

I think I withdrew from UMKC mid-summer, and the semester started in September, based on the situation in June of 2019, it wouldn't have worked, in retrospect it would have, I was hired by CNH in the fall, and I was offered the opportunity to switch shifts. School could have worked.

...

 248

There was quite a bit of traffic going into work today, and no event at the stadium, it is Monday, so I guess that's why.

Earlier this morning I put in a few trades before going to sleep, I went to sleep at around noon. Ate some noodles. It was strange, my portfolio was way up during pre-market hours, almost 16,000.

But it wasn't long before it came back down.

...

249

I have to tell you. I don't know what to do. The week, however, is almost over, well, the work week anyway, and an end to the work week is always nice, I think. Maybe it's only half-way over. There is the possibility that there will be a chance to extend on Wednesday, for overtime, and of course I would take it if it's offered.

I took horoscopes off of my news filter. Like I removed being presented with horoscope articles. Useless. I don't know how many fucking times I've read that I'm going to get it on really really hard with the woman of my fucking dreams, but, stupid ass horoscopes, it hasn't happened, day after day, even though the horoscope said it would happen.

I think that people set themselves up for disappointment if they have expectations that are unrealistic, and, honestly, it's unrealistic that what happens in the future will coincide with some random statement of what could possibly happen in the future.

I think of a horoscope as kind of like a a Powerball or Mega Millions Quick Pick: the machine spits out random numbers the way an astrologer spits out a random prophecy. The random ass Quick Pick numbers are never the same as the winning mother-fucking numbers. The prophecy is never the same as what actually happens.

It's not just horoscopes that I've removed from my news feed. It's a bunch of other stuff too. Pop-culture, movies, shows, music, video games, and sports.

...

250

Today is still Tuesday. Almost at the end of day 3 of the work week. For some reason, SAN and BBVA are no longer supported by Robinhood, except as options trades.
LYG is a stock that I have 3 call options out on. I wrote 3 call options. 

Today is still Tuesday. Almost at the end of day 3 of the work week. For some reason, SAN and BBVA are no longer supported by Robinhood, except as options trades.
LYG is a stock that I have 3 call options out on. I wrote 3 call options. 

maybe there was something
that you were looking for and
honestly
you aren't going to find it. you
really won't

Today is still Tuesday. Almost at the end of day 3 of the work week. For some reason, SAN and BBVA are no longer supported by Robinhood, except as options trades.
LYG is a stock that I have 3 call options out on. I wrote 3 call options. 

are you mad at me? you know, honestly. 
you haven't reached out or anything.

Today is still Tuesday. Almost at the end of day 3 of the work week. For some reason, SAN and BBVA are no longer supported by Robinhood, except as options trades.

what are you talking about? I've reached out to you
non-stop.

LYG is a stock that I have 3 call options out on. I wrote 3 call options. 
whatever. a lot of that stuff really doesn't count. 
marketing emails? mass emails? that doesn't count.

...

251

Today has been kind of an eventful day, but then again, not really. After my shift, today I worked a half shift, I hung out for half an hour in the parking lot, waiting to see if there would be an offer for overtime, but there wasn't, so I headed home.

I slept, woke up, watched a few documentaries. Went to my mailbox and picked up the Porcine Medallions of Glory. So Glorious. I had to rotate most of them in my camera so they would show face up.

BEHOLD, the glory of the Porcine Medallions of Glory!
...

252

Shoot. I downloaded Steam with the idea of playing computer games again, I set it up on my External Hard Drive, rather than my Internal Hard Drive, since my Internal Drive doesn't have a hell of a lot of space anyway. I'm not sure if this was a good idea, because I know that I'm going to fritter my time doing useless stuff.

I did have the chance to set up a Traditional IRA with Fidelity, and just made my first transaction, just a market order for SPLG. I didn't bother setting a limit order because it was only a fractional share purchase. I wanted to fund the account and see how the whole thing worked. There were a few options for me to set up an IRA with, IBRK, Webull, and Fidelity.

Shoot. I downloaded Steam with the idea of playing computer games again, I set it up on my External Hard Drive, rather than my Internal Hard Drive, since my Internal Drive doesn't have a hell of a lot of space anyway. I'm not sure if this was a good idea, because I know that I'm going to fritter my time doing useless stuff.

I did have the chance to set up a Traditional IRA with Fidelity, and just made my first transaction, just a market order for SPLG. I didn't bother setting a limit order because it was only a fractional share purchase. I wanted to fund the account and see how the whole thing worked. There were a few options for me to set up an IRA with, IBRK, Webull, and Fidelity.

...

253

I downloaded a game on steam, and when it was finished downloading and it was installed, I really didn't feel like playing it.

I'm going to go the Walmart Neighborhood Market when it opens and buy groceries.

Shit. I was hit with 2 overdraft fees the other day. This was due to a bill payment that was sent earlier than expected, and two transfers that were processed earlier than expected.

It wouldn't have been a problem if either the bill payment or the transfers went through earlier than expected, but all three went through earlier than expected, and that created a problem. I cancelled all future bill payments in the mean time, and I'll figure out what to do in the morning. I tried calling the bank to see if these could get reversed, but their office isn't open.

What a disaster. The porcine medallions have so far not brought me good luck.

I applied for a second job. Just one, Maybe I should continue looking around at other positions as well. I'm just so tired.

I have to call the bank and see if they will reverse the transactions, well, I mean, reverse the fees. That's a lot of fucking money. Jesus.

I downloaded a game on steam, and when it was finished downloading and it was installed, I really didn't feel like playing it.

I'm going to go the Walmart Neighborhood Market when it opens and buy groceries.

Shit. I was hit with 2 overdraft fees the other day. This was due to a bill payment that was sent earlier than expected, and two transfers that were processed earlier than expected.

It wouldn't have been a problem if either the bill payment or the transfers went through earlier than expected, but all three went through earlier than expected, and that created a problem. I cancelled all future bill payments in the mean time, and I'll figure out what to do in the morning. I tried calling the bank to see if these could get reversed, but their office isn't open.

What a disaster. The porcine medallions have so far not brought me good luck.

I applied for a second job. Just one, Maybe I should continue looking around at other positions as well. I'm just so tired.

I have to call the bank and see if they will reverse the transactions, well, I mean, reverse the fees. That's a lot of fucking money. Jesus.

...

254

I've been playing Children of the Nile. This game is so old, and I've been playing it for so long. I don't seem to get any responses from any of the second jobs that I apply for. Most of the time I'm responding to emails that I receive. I wonder if, instead, I should scour job boards and apply there, rather than respond to incoming emails.

I've been thinking about cereal these last few hours.

I've been playing Children of the Nile. This game is so old, and I've been playing it for so long. I don't seem to get any responses from any of the second jobs that I apply for. Most of the time I'm responding to emails that I receive. I wonder if, instead, I should scour job boards and apply there, rather than respond to incoming emails.

I've been thinking about cereal these last few hours.

...

255

I stopped buying stuff to eat while at work. So I just don't eat anything while I'm on break or lunch at work. I'm tempted to get something. I just don't want to waste any money if I can avoid it. I've been eating way too many eggs and packets of ramen. All that sodium and cholesterol.

I didn't buy any lottery tickets for the last few drawings, but I really want to get one. I think that if I won the jackpot, I would only make very modest changes to my lifestyle, and I wonder why I shouldn't just make these changes anyway?

I have an hour and a half left. What makes it feel so long to get through the shift?

Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being baptized an acolyte of Christianity & Co. Inc, PLC. so. You know. It's like that.

I registered for an information event at UTA. I have until March to get everything together.

I stopped buying stuff to eat while at work. So I just don't eat anything while I'm on break or lunch at work. I'm tempted to get something. I just don't want to waste any money if I can avoid it. I've been eating way too many eggs and packets of ramen. All that sodium and cholesterol.

I didn't buy any lottery tickets for the last few drawings, but I really want to get one. I think that if I won the jackpot, I would only make very modest changes to my lifestyle, and I wonder why I shouldn't just make these changes anyway?

I have an hour and a half left. What makes it feel so long to get through the shift?

I registered for an information event at UTA. I have until March to get everything together.

...

256

I downloaded Call to Power II, it's an old Civilization variant. It sucks. Waste of 7 bucks. I don't really think that I'm going to play this game. Or, at least not very much.

This morning I went to the grocery store, and bought 5 LBS of ground beef. I usually buy ground pork, or pork sausage, but I thought I would go with ground beef. I bought ground beef a few days ago too.

I downloaded Call to Power II, it's an old Civilization variant. It sucks. Waste of 7 bucks. I don't really think that I'm going to play this game. Or, at least not very much.

This morning I went to the grocery store, and bought 5 LBS of ground beef. I usually buy ground pork, or pork sausage, but I thought I would go with ground beef. I bought ground beef a few days ago too.

...

257

Annotation dated 10/12/2022 at 05:25 PM. I think that I was working at the Book Factory when I wrote this. There was a lot of overtime opportunities when I was working there. I felt bad that I ever left later, and I'm not sure why I transferred out of there.

My shift is almost over. I took some PTO this month, not one whole block of time, just the next few Wednesdays since my PTO bank was maxed out. Wednesdays I work a half shift. I then took a few extra shifts this week. I could use the money.

Trying to pay my electricity bill, but something keeps preventing the payment from going through. I don't know what the issue is. My bill is less than 6 bucks. I'm doing pretty good with my electricity usage. I used 13 kWh of electricity this month.

The price of gasoline is slowly creeping up. I remember gas being really cheap in Missouri. I guess what I mean buy that is: even though Missouri isn't any more of an oil state than, say, Nevada or California, the other two states that I lived in, I remember gas being really cheap in Missouri. From California to Nevada to Missouri, and then to Texas, I travelled through several states, but I only really noticed the gas prices in states that I lived in. If I was passing through the state I just paid whatever it I was charged to fill my tank. My tank only has room for 9 gallons, and I only know this because I just looked it up right now.

I usually refill my gas tank once a week, and it's usually about 10 bucks, so I guess I buy about 5 gallons of gas per week.

...

258

So today, I went to buy groceries, but instead of getting several boxes of ramen, I bought a huge bag of cereal, and a half-gallon of milk.

I'll probably go back to eating ramen again at some point in the future. I usually add meat to my ramen, but I think I'm going to try something else: Veggies!

...

259

I rolled my position for the first time ever with my call options. I wrote 3 calls with a 4/16 expiration date a few months ago, I bought them back, and wrote 7/16 calls on the shares that were freed up.

Well, actually, this is the first time I rolled options forward. I rolled them downward once. I wrote call options with a 6 dollar strike price, close them later, and then wrote options with a 5 dollar strike price.

...

260

I honestly want to get more coins, but I want to stick to buying certified coins. I don't know what to do. I want the coins I have to get certified, but it seems expensive.

I have to tell you. I don't know what to do. The week, however, is almost over, well, the work week anyway, and an end to the work week is always nice, I think. Maybe it's only half-way over. There is the possibility that there will be a chance to extend on Wednesday, for overtime, and of course I would take it if it's offered.

I took horoscopes off of my news filter. Like I removed being presented with horoscope articles. Useless. I don't know how many fucking times I've read that I'm going to get it on really really hard with the woman of my fucking dreams, but, stupid ass horoscopes, it hasn't happened, day after day, even though the horoscope said it would happen.

I think that people set themselves up for disappointment if they have expectations that are unrealistic, and, honestly, it's unrealistic that what happens in the future will coincide with some random statement of what could possibly happen in the future.

I think of a horoscope as kind of like a a Powerball or Mega Millions Quick Pick: the machine spits out random numbers the way an astrologer spits out a random prophecy. The random ass Quick Pick numbers are never the same as the winning mother-fucking numbers. The prophecy is never the same as what actually happens.

It's not just horoscopes that I've removed from my news feed. It's a bunch of other stuff too. Pop-culture, movies, shows, music, video games, and sports.

...

261

I don't know what I got myself into, but I have to do some major options rolling tomorrow, this is semi- fucked.

I have to tell you. I don't know what to do. The week, however, is almost over, well, the work week anyway, and an end to the work week is always nice, I think. Maybe it's only half-way over. There is the possibility that there will be a chance to extend on Wednesday, for overtime, and of course I would take it if it's offered.

I took horoscopes off of my news filter. Like I removed being presented with horoscope articles. Useless. I don't know how many fucking times I've read that I'm going to get it on really really hard with the woman of my fucking dreams, but, stupid ass horoscopes, it hasn't happened, day after day, even though the horoscope said it would happen.

I think that people set themselves up for disappointment if they have expectations that are unrealistic, and, honestly, it's unrealistic that what happens in the future will coincide with some random statement of what could possibly happen in the future.

I think of a horoscope as kind of like a a Powerball or Mega Millions Quick Pick: the machine spits out random numbers the way an astrologer spits out a random prophecy. The random ass Quick Pick numbers are never the same as the winning mother-fucking numbers. The prophecy is never the same as what actually happens.

It's not just horoscopes that I've removed from my news feed. It's a bunch of other stuff too. Pop-culture, movies, shows, music, video games, and sports.

...

262

I still sometimes want to get more coins. There was another thing that I've been wanting to do, I've been wanting to buy coins and have them certified. I don't know if that would be a waste of money, it costs at the very least 17 bucks to have a coin certified.

I went to get groceries. I'm kind of sick of ground beef and ramen, again, I did get veggies for my ramen like I said I would, onions, and it was okay, but still, my ramen gets greasy.

So I'm back to cereal for now.

The options I rolled last Friday were for. Transocean with a $3 strike expiring that day, well, it was just one option.

The thing about cereal is that I have to get milk every morning at the grocery store on my way from work. Today is Tuesday, but, I didn't get any milk today for my cereal. I just went to 7-11 and got some sliders.

...

263

It's the last day of my work week as far as I can tell. There haven't been any calls for overtime. Im tired and I almost wanted to take time off. The last 2 weeks were 60 hour work weeks.

I have to tell you. I don't know what to do. The week, however, is almost over, well, the work week anyway, and an end to the work week is always nice, I think. Maybe it's only half-way over. There is the possibility that there will be a chance to extend on Wednesday, for overtime, and of course I would take it if it's offered.

I took horoscopes off of my news filter. Like I removed being presented with horoscope articles. Useless. I don't know how many fucking times I've read that I'm going to get it on really really hard with the woman of my fucking dreams, but, stupid ass horoscopes, it hasn't happened, day after day, even though the horoscope said it would happen.

I think that people set themselves up for disappointment if they have expectations that are unrealistic, and, honestly, it's unrealistic that what happens in the future will coincide with some random statement of what could possibly happen in the future.

I think of a horoscope as kind of like a a Powerball or Mega Millions Quick Pick: the machine spits out random numbers the way an astrologer spits out a random prophecy. The random ass Quick Pick numbers are never the same as the winning mother-fucking numbers. The prophecy is never the same as what actually happens.

It's not just horoscopes that I've removed from my news feed. It's a bunch of other stuff too. Pop-culture, movies, shows, music, video games, and sports.

...

264

I tried moving money from Interactive Brokers to Robinhood, but the transaction was not authorized by Interactive Brokers, and this resulted in a credit reversal with my Robinhood account. Robinhood doesn't charge a fee for ACH reversals the way a bank charges for bounced checks, thank god, but I had to close out several positions less profitably than I could have. I also had to close out profitable positions that I really had no intention of closing for a while.

Breaktime. I have to wait until midnight to see if my funds made it from interactive brokers to Citibank.

I have to tell you. I don't know what to do. The week, however, is almost over, well, the work week anyway, and an end to the work week is always nice, I think. Maybe it's only half-way over. There is the possibility that there will be a chance to extend on Wednesday, for overtime, and of course I would take it if it's offered.

I took horoscopes off of my news filter. Like I removed being presented with horoscope articles. Useless. I don't know how many fucking times I've read that I'm going to get it on really really hard with the woman of my fucking dreams, but, stupid ass horoscopes, it hasn't happened, day after day, even though the horoscope said it would happen.

I think that people set themselves up for disappointment if they have expectations that are unrealistic, and, honestly, it's unrealistic that what happens in the future will coincide with some random statement of what could possibly happen in the future.

I think of a horoscope as kind of like a a Powerball or Mega Millions Quick Pick: the machine spits out random numbers the way an astrologer spits out a random prophecy. The random ass Quick Pick numbers are never the same as the winning mother-fucking numbers. The prophecy is never the same as what actually happens.

It's not just horoscopes that I've removed from my news feed. It's a bunch of other stuff too. Pop-culture, movies, shows, music, video games, and sports.

...

265

I bought a snack at work. I was so hungry and I usually don't like spending money on lunch, back in September when I was working at the airport I was spending a lot of money buying prepared food.

I may have bought food twice this week at work. I think I spent 3 bucks today, the last time I want to say it was 10 bucks.

I remember not wanting to go into work that day, the day I spent 10 bucks, but I figured, maybe I would spoil myself with something from the cafeteria to cheer me up. I had like 4 chimichangas.

I did have quite a bit of overtime this week. Thank god.

...

266

I took the COVID-19 test again, I think that I took it last in November. I don't have it. I don't feel sick and haven't felt sick, so I guess I shouldn't have it.

and then
you stick a Q-tip in your nose
and then you put
the Q-tip in a jar.

I tool the COVID-19 test again, I think that I took it last in November. I don't have it. I don't feel sick and haven't felt sick, so I guess I shouldn't have it.

...

267

and you can see
how it all changes
and how it all transforms
and how it all
converts from
all the old things into
all the new things.

I actually barfed yesterday. I ate a bunch of ground beef and ramen, then I ate a ton of cereal. Not a good mix I guess.

...

268

There haven't been any calls for overtime, well, there was one for an extension of the Wednesday shift that I've been taking off. I would have signed up, but I missed the call for it. My funds still haven't been added to my Robinhood account, even though they've been taken out of my bank account. That transaction reversal from Interactive Brokers really messed with my portfolio.

...

269

Later in the day yesterday there was a 
call for overtime, so I signed up for 2 days.

there
were a few
people there
and they said to you
here you are and we found
you.

Later in the day yesterday there 
was a call for overtime, so I signed up fpr 2 days.

...

270

It's freezing.
and i think
that i am going to
freeze all
over again.
...

271

Late January I had my appointment for my Texas Drivers License, it came in the mail not too long after. So I have it.

I can probably sign up for the food delivery stuff. I've been getting a lot of overtime at work, 20 hrs a week for the past 5 or 6 weeks, so I don't know if I'll have the energy to really do anything extra.

...

272

I'm stuck indoors, working on my taxes. There is a blizzard, work was cancelled for today. The apartment complex is covered in snow.

There is something wrong with Webull, it isn't providing me with a consolidated statement for my transactions, even though I had a few through that brokerage.

...

273

It's freezing. I've had the heater running almost non-stop for several days now. I went to the grocery store a few times but it was closed due to the blizzard. Work was cancelled two days in a row for the same reason.

...

274

Supposedly this blizzard has a second wave, on Monday it was warm during the day, or, the sky was clear and the sun was shining. I thought that would be the end of it, but this whole blizzard is expected to last until Thursday.

I only have long grain rice and ramen noodles in my apartment. I don't have any meat. On Monday I went to the grocery store twice to pick up some meat, but it was closed.

I was looking at my Facebook memories, about 2 years ago this time, there was a blizzard in Missouri. For the time that I was in Missouri, 2 winters, it snowed during the winter. One time, I slid into a ditch during a snowy day. I was luck because I was in town, and a woman pulled me out of the ditch with her truck.

Since the grocery store wasn't open the other day, I just went to get something to eat at 7-11. I actually bought ice cream, as cold as it is here, I bought ice cream. I'm calling the grocery store to see if they are open.

There are a few call options that I wrote on shares that I may want to keep. I could buy to close the call options, and this would result in a net debit on my account, I sold the calls at one price, and have to buy them back at a higher price. I would have to roll forward for a net credit.

But here is the thing, it's possible that those options are going to be more expensive in the future.

So. I sold them for 22, I could buy them back for 35, and then sell calls on those shares for a later date for 55: Here is a summary of the debits and credits so far: +22 -35 + 55.

...

275

It was a long week during the blizzard. There was nothing to eat. And for days afterward the shelves at the grocery store were empty. The factory was closed, so I stayed home and froze to death.

...

276

Just staying busy. I've been doing the food delivery stuff in my spare time. I tried doing it this morning but the last few deliveries were extremely discouraging. A few were to apartment numbers that, as far as I could tell, didn't even exist. 

I bought two sheets of stamps. Year of the boar and year of the ox. I wonder if I have a complete sheet of year of the rat stamps?

...

277

I was king of dreading topping off my IRA and HSA for tax season, but now, I'm kind of looking forward to it. The company is switching our HSA provider from some company I've never heard of, to Fidelity. I had an HSA through Fidelity from my last job, so I'm more familiar with how to use it.

Somber music played by guys at the pool,
I'm listening from my sweltering room,
as the sun beats down, the water is cool,
I'd join them to alleviate my gloom.

I have this totally ridiculous 
thought that if I can't really sleep right now
then perhaps I should try to finish this
series of epic sonnets on the Dow

the Standard and Poor's, the Russell, and the 
Wilshire. Dumb old index crap, I'd like to
do something more sophisticated, a
person like me, though, consistently blue

in mood, testicles, temperament, and chips,
writing these sad songs with my hands and lips.

Somber music played by guys at the pool,
I'm listening from my sweltering room,
as the sun beats down, the water is cool,
I should join and alleviate my gloom.

I have this totally ridiculous 
thought that if I can't really sleep right now
then perhaps I should try to finish this
series of epic sonnets on the Dow

the Standard and Poor's, the Russell, and the 
Wilshire. Dumb old index crap, I'd like to
do something more sophisticated, a
person like me, though, consistently blue

in mood, testicles, temperament, and chips,
writing these sad songs with my hands and lips.

...

278

I thought I saw you
I'm sure it wasn't you

a somber expression
a neat little 
pony tail
your mask pulled
just below your lips

I saw your high school
and hometown

I've was dropping off coffee

i got money back from the
ring and bracelet

i don't know
what else to say

...

279

I went to the buffet, I ate a lot of food, but not as much as I thought I would, and I was disappointed. I think that this is the second time I went this week, or maybe I went last week.

I slept in my car for about 2 hours after eating. I'm tired.

I have a headache, I think it's caffeine withdrawal, I usually buy several 2 liters after work each day, but I haven't done that in a while. I'm drinking a 20 oz right now.

I've been doing the food delivery stuff, I don't exactly need the money, but I'm always worried that I might need the money at some point in the future.

The headache has gone away. I took 2 ibuprofen and 4 acetaminophen.

...

280

Oh jeeze. So I got another pair of shoes for work. There is an allocation for free shoes from work, it annual, but it doesn't start from the date of your hire, it restarts every January. I thought that I would have to wait until July or October to get another pair.

...

281

I really want to buy some new clothes, new pants, new jackets, and new shirts, but this is definitely a want, and not a need. There is more or less nothing wrong with the clothes I have, and on top of that, I have plenty of new clothes in my closet that I haven't used yet, and there is nothing wrong with those new clothes either, I mean, what I'm wanting is new, new clothes.

Well, I actually did buy 5 new shirts yesterday, so I did buy new, new clothes. What I'm I thinking, though. Well. There weren't any calls for overtime at the book factory. There was one small one, but it filled before I could accept it. What I mean is, I usually take two 12 hours overtime shifts at the book factory, supposing that those don't come up, it means I have to make up that money doing food delivery, and food delivery is a much harder way to make up that money, I want to say that it takes about 20 hours of food delivery to make the same amount as 12 hours of overtime.

There are aspects to both, food delivery doesn't have withholding, but it does have expenses, overtime at the factory does have withholding, but it does not have expenses. Anyway, what I'm trying to get at is this, If I have to make up that money doing food delivery, I really don't want to spend that money. Food delivery money is really hard to earn, which makes it really hard to spend.

...

282

I have food at home, so I don't have to stop for groceries after work. Saves time I guess, but how much?

I think of people who throw bad juju out into the universe. I pray they get it right back ten times over.

...

283

I sold my old laptop on Facebook Marketplace. This is the second thing I sold on there. There were some responses that cam in right away.

...

284

I sold my old laptop. The guy who bought it seems to have turned it around and listed it for 90.

...

285

I don't really have much to say right now. Nothing has really been going on, I did make a purchase from the US Mint, some coins, and I've been trying to sell stuff on Facebook Marketplace. The first two things I listed on Facebook Marketplace sold quickly, but these other things that I've listed are taking a while to sell.

...

286

I have to think. There wasn't any overtime shifts last week, and there probably won't be any this week. I've been pulling 60 hour weeks for about 3 months now, so maybe I should take a break. There was 1 40 hour week back in January, but I was also working sixties since I transferred.

...

287

It might be slow at the book factory for the next few weeks. I've also been booted from doing food deliveries. I was at an 83 percent and needed an 85. I requested a review, but I won't be allowed back on.

One of the biggest problems is night deliveries. For a lot of restaurants, the only option is the drive through, and you can be waiting for 30 minutes just to reach the order box. Then there's the time it takes for them to make the food, and for you to deliver it.

For about 3 weeks I was working about 85 hours between the factory and the food delivery stuff, putting in additional hours has really been the only way I've found to make more money. Maybe with these next few weeks of downtime I can figure out what to do next.

I feel stuck. I'm going to write off the possibility of doing food delivery or rideshare stuff again, I've been wanting to sell stuff online, but I've only had limited success so far.

...

288

My orders with the US Mint keep getting rejected. Maybe this is a sign that I shouldn't be buying coins right now. 3 different orders have been rejected.

...

289

I'm kind of not knowing what the future holds. I'm feeling kind of filled with cloudiness or feelings of uncertainty.

I want to make more money. Without overtime I feel less secure about the future. I might just sign up with a different food delivery platform or parcel delivery platform or something.

I really think that it's the night deliveries that take an hour or so just to place the order are a real driver of complaints. I'm sure there are plenty of people who appreciate it or whatever, but really, most people will hold you responsible for things that are largely out of your control. The only thing I can control in that respect is dodging those orders.

...

290

I worked a small amount of overtime on Friday morning. I'm somewhat optimistic of more overtime coming over the next few weeks, but I'm not entirely sure.

...

291

I took quite a bit of assignments on the March put options I wrote, so this morning I wrote quite a few cover calls for April.

I want to cut down on the amount of money I spend on impulse food purchases. I bought ice cream several times this week, and candies.

...

292

I signed up for DoorDash a few weeks ago, and did my first set of deliveries today, just 3 and it took maybe an hour or so. It may have made sense to do more, but I signed up for 60 hours this week, and next week, and I don't want to get burned out. I have to think about renewing my lease or potentially finding another place.

...

293

I had another copyright application approved, so now I have 4, but what are these good for?

...

294

I renewed my OKCupid subscription for 6 months. That was useless. I had 30 likes from people in the Philippines and Kenya.

It's not that I don't like Filipino women, or women from Kenya, it's just that these matches aren't really realistic to pursue.

...

295

Well. I don't know where I'm at exactly. In life. is what I mean. I'm frustrated about a lot of things. I'm unhappy about a lot of things. I feel like I'm constantly in this state of short term planning. I mean, I don't have any plans that extend out more than a few months.

Maybe this is okay. Maybe being focused on the short term helps in the long term. I think I have around 21K more money between my accounts in my current month, than I had in my first month since moving to Texas. I still have quite a few bad habits, but far fewer bad habits than before. My debts have been reduced. I have my own place, and I'm really not too dependent on anyone.

But I don't have a social life, these dating apps and sites are a nightmare, or waste of time, or something in between the two. I would like to enjoy life. I'm constantly in this kind of precarious situation at work, and this kind of informs my decision to focus on the short term. I haven't received unemployment benefits the last 3 or 4 times that I applied, which to me means that I kind of have to hold on to as much money as I can to guard against a lack of income that might happen at some point in the future. This makes me kind of cynical about social welfare and social safety net policies. What's the point of a social safety net if it's not actually there?

I have today and tomorrow off.

...

296

I'm trying to fall asleep, and it's just not happening. I woke up around 2 PM and I've been more or less up since then. I played on the computer, I picked up my mail, and made lunch.

With my situation at work being precarious, my thinking is that the best thing I can do is have money on the sidelines, I might not qualify for unemployment if I were to get canned due to having access to gig work.

I noticed my GMAT study guides in my closet. I haven't really thought about graduate school in a while, and I'm still not too confident about ir. One thing that worries me is that, if a job that doesn't really require any specialised skills or education can be in a constant state of peril, why would I want to shell out money on a degree to get a job that I might constantly be holding onto by a thread.

The last few times I applied for graduate school I was either out of a job, or gig working, even when I came to Texas I think that applying at Arlington was one of the first things that sort of came to mind when I saw that there was a college here.

Sometimes I think that when I'm having difficulties that it's partly due to someone out there having it out for me, that I'm on someone's shit-list, but who, and why?

But there has been quite a bit of turnover where I work, one day, there just not there anymore.

...

297

Well, there are a few things on my mind right now. Well, I wrote in a previous post that I renewed my subscription to OK Cupid. I was really hoping to have some seriously promiscuous sexual encounters as a result, but I haven't had any, the other night, though, I came close. She was ready to go, but, I thought better of it. I had this premonition of being a victim of a violent act, and, then I just stopped responding.

Whether I really feel like it or not, and, whether I really believe it or not, I have to realize that I am, actually, becoming rich. 50 K between my accounts by the end of the year is almost a certainty, assuming I don't get canned from my job, and 100 K is not entirely out of the realm of possibilities. What I'm trying to say is: I have to be careful about who I get mixed up with.

And, this kind of made me realize why women are so cagey about meeting up with random guys to fuck: I mean, if I was afraid of some random woman being violet toward me, I'm guessing that women are even more afraid about some random guy being violent toward them. More violent acts are perpetuated by men than by women.

Even outside of the dating world, I still have these premonitions of being shot or stabbed or bludgeoned or murdered or something, and, these fears motivate many of my decisions: I like being in places with lots of security cameras, I like that my phone is always tracking my location, I like that all of my purchases are documented, my text conversations and calls are logged. I haven't used cash in the longest time, I always keep navigation on when I'm driving. I think most people are paranoid by all the surveillance and data collection that goes on these days, but, to me, it's okay. Sometimes I think that I'm on someone's shit-list, but sometimes, I also think that I'm someone's golden-boy, and I think that these somebodies are two different somebodies, but, who is who? I think back to why I came to Texas, and I think about HER, and, I wonder: if SHE isn't the fleet admiral of the alien extra-terrestrials from the distant mothershipillian home-world of korbaumtalliadathuma who secretly looks out for me, then, who is?

...

298

Once I finally did fall asleep, I slept until, maybe around midnight. I've been up since then, so just a few hours. I played on the computer. Playing on the computer doesn't really advance me in any way, but I think that it's important to unwind.

...

299

I was chatting with someone for a while on OK Cupid, but it kind of fizzled after a few days, we never even met up, but I kind of got this idea of buying a place here, it's something that was in the back of my mind for a while, and I guess my conversation with her sort of brought it back to the front of my mind.

Buying a place probably isn't going to get me more dates or anything. If I were to buy something, it would honestly probably be in a similar part of town that I'm living now, and if not, probably not in some fabulous area, and probably nothing large or fancy.

I downloaded 3 more dating apps, I usually use OK Cupid, and maybe Facebook Dating a little bit. I downloaded Bumble, Catch and Tinder. I'm not super optimistic about this. I probably shouldn't be focusing on any kind of dating crap right now.

I have 2 main things that I need to do. The first is to finish up my contributions to my IRA and HSA, and I to contribute 4000 more for the 2020 tax year, I did 3000 already, I would have completed the full amount a few weeks ago, but when I read that the deadline was being extended to mid-May, I figured that I might as well wait a little longer. The second thing is figuring out this living situation. My lease is up in July, and I realize now that I'm not sure if that is the end of June - beginning of July, or the end of July. I guess I'll review my lease to make sure.

If I can find a place that I can afford to buy, then I think that I'll do it. It will probably take longer than 2 months to get everything together. I'll start looking ASAP.

I might not be super enchanted with Texas, but, I'm not sure how much more enchanting some other state is going to be, meaning, I might be done hopping from State to State, well, I only have 2 sets of parents, but, I think that I should buy a place so that I have somewhere to return to in the event that I do relocate and things don't work out. Not one step back, or, at least not so many steps back that I end up in Nevada or Missouri or California.

One thing I worry about when it comes to accumulating wealth is that, as of right now, Chestnut + Hazel, as in, my blog, will inherit all of my assets when I pass away.

I have two sets of covered calls that have a high probability of being assigned on the 16th, SPLG at 47, and 2 SPTM calls at 51, and this would result in an account credit of 14900 upon assignment.

...

300

I was reading old posts that had reader hits and I came across this:
first you
have to get
rid of
the old shit
and make something
new out of it
and you can then
create something
even more awesome
afterward

Well. If you haven't guess. I. AM. Isabella Cantalio. HAHAHAHA.

Sometimes I wonder about these old posts. Sometimes I think that there are hidden messages here for me to read. My past self telling my future self something I need to hear. My past self giving my future self some advice that I need.

...

301

When I come back from break I'll have and hour and a half left of my shift. I'm ready to go home, the system my employer has for taking time off is really convenient, but it's just an hour and a half, so I'll work it. I've felt like leaving early several times over the past few days.

I changed my before work routine and forgot to put on a belt, they fit well enough that I didn't notice right away, but they're loose enough that I've had to pull them back up constantly.

I'm home, and I'm tired. I left half a can of whole pickled jalapenos on my desk the other day, and for a while I thought that there might be a centipede inside. I'm drinking scotch and soda. You shouldn't really mix a whiskey with anything, unless it's a cheap one, and I don't know if this is a cheap one or not. Well, it's not like I'm ever going to recover any of the money that I spent on all these bottles of whiskey. I may as well drink them.

My sleep cycle is slightly screwed up. For the longest time, when I would accept overtime, I would take days where I would have 3 shifts, then a day off, then 2 shifts, then a day off, with this other schedule, I have a solid 5 day period of work followed by a solid 2 day period of rest, well, it works out to 60 hours between the end of one 5 day period, to the start of the next 5 day period, so, it's slightly more than 2 days (48 hours), and not quite 3 days (72 hours).

I have nothing to write. I've been somewhat manic about posting everything I think about or do, and right now I feel like I really don't have much to say. I don't understand what it taking so long for my GMAT scores to upload to my application at UMKC. I guess it takes a while. That's fine. I wrote before that it isn't due for a while. I remember the deadline being at some point in the summer. I didn't get much sleep last night but for some reason I feel very well rested. I went to sleep at around 11 PM and woke up at 1 AM. I spun some ideas around in my head for several hours, then got ready for work. My phone drained 30% in an hour and a half. I need to get a new fucking phone. There was this woman here who looked kind of like KWD. Only I remember KWD having a really shapely ass. I looked up a few businesses in Kansas City that I may be interested in working for either during or after college.

I saw that I had a reader hit on the above post. 2 fucking years ago. Jesus. It caught my eye because 301 is the number of my current Sanford Street post. The woman in question was the human resources manager at Case New Holland, the last time I saw her was during a presentation where she announced that the employees were getting raises. She looked like an entirely different woman because she had a completely different hairstyle.

...

302

I just closed out my position in LYG and I wanted to figure out how well I had done with that stock. It was actually a total pain in the ass to figure this out, there are transactions that are logged in the mobile version, that aren't on the desktop version, and vice versa. Anyway, I'm coming out to a total of $250.82.

Long time. I've been messing around with LYG since January 2020, but the majority of my position was acquired during December 2020, and January 2021 as a result of put options assignments, totaling 600 shares, and I must have bought shares and wrote call options on 200 shares. I could have squeezed about 32 more dollars out of the position, but I would have had to held on to them until July 2021.

I've read that, as a rule of thumb, if you make half the money you expect to make in less than half the time you expect to make it, then go ahead and close out your positions and take your profits. 

This rule isn't really referring to the set of trades I had on LYG, but I guess I kind of adapted the rule to this position, Dec 2020 to July 2021 is 8 months, holding the position until July 2021 would have made me 283, so far I made 250 5 months into the position 

so

283 * (5/8) = 176

250 > 176

So it makes sense to close out the position since 250 > 176. 

Anyway, I just wanted to do something else with that money.

Another trade that is somewhat interesting was something I did with SPLG. Last month I sold a covered call for $27, I bought it back for $145. The asshole that bought that call made 537 % on his/her money in less than a month. Anyway, it was a strike of 47, and the share price when I bought to close the option was 48.33. So, even though I had realized a loss of 118 ( 27-145 ), it freed up an unrealized gain of 143, and then I was able to sell another covered call at 20 for next month with a strike of 50. I wonder if that asshole is going to 500 percent his money again? Well, if that were to happen, at least I get another 250.

...

303

I downloaded Spotify. I paid for the OK Cupid membership, and also for Bumble.

Online dating really hasn't worked for me, and I'm skeptical that it ever will.

In a way I'm ticked off that I was duped into buying OK Cupid premium. I don't know. I'll try to squeeze as much out of my subscriptions as possible, but I don't think I'm going to continue being to active on these any more.

The work week is over. Thank God. I'm tired. Well. Kind of indifferent. I go back to work on Friday. I doubt that I'm going to get any dates. 

One thing I think, though, is that I shouldn't really get discouraged. I realize that I really only send people messages during the middle of night, when I'm on break or lunch at work.

One of my neighbors is playing loud music. It's daytime, but I work at night, so to me, this is like playing loud music at night. Well, it doesn't really bother me, but there is this: When I hear loud music, I tend to think that people are getting it on, and playing music to mask the noise.

...

304

I have 2 covered calls on SPTM that are probably going to get assigned. I wouldn't mind rolling these, but, I don't want to pay too much above what the intrinsic value of these contracts is, considering that they expire, and will get called away tomorrow. I think I'll watch these and change the adjust the price every few minutes or so.

Actually. I think that I just have to let them get called away. 

Well, I've more or less finished setting up my positions for May, and I'm kind of counting on an assignment on my shares of SPTM tomorrow. So, let's get those bitches assigned. With nearly all of my index ETF's gone, I wonder if i'm going to get stuck in the universe of penny stocks.

...

305

I went through all my LYG transactions, and the total for everything was 1957.69 in subtractions, and 2219.11 in additions. So my total gain on everything was 261.31. As I mentioned in a previous post. I've been trading this stock since January 2020, but the bulk of my position I took in December or November of 2020.

Even though I need SPTM to be assigned today, for some reason I kind of want to roll those covered calls. I have 2 outstanding. Here is the issue. I sold them for 10, the intrinsic value is 62. I would be willing to pay 65, but it looks like the ask is 85, which is way out of the question. My cost basis on these shares is 44.61, they are going to be called away at 51.

I want to keep them, but I need them to get called away so I can transfer the cash into my IRA and HSA.

I did a little bit of Door Dash today, but there was kind of a Typhoon going on, so I called it short, plus there were things I wanted to look at. I Door Dashed yesterday, but I was tired. For these 60 hours off, I want to say I slept at least 50 of them. I have work tonight at 6. I'm hoping for more overtime in the coming weeks.

Super bored. I still have several hours before I start work. I really look forward to starting the second job and having additional income. I really do. I really want extra money.

686 is one of those KWD numbers. I saw a reader hit on this post. I don't know where I'm at, right now. In the sense that, should I be looking for additional opportunities to grind? Or should I be looking for some entirely different opportunity? One thing about the Bumble dating app is that, many of these women are like Alpha-Females. I'm kind of an Omega-Doofus. 

I'm trying to pay my electricity bill right now, and the website is taking nine thousand years to load. $ 5.68. Not too bad, well, that almost what it always is.

So with my position being closed with SPTM, I'm adding up the plus and minus sides of these trades. The total on the plus side is 13439.97, and on the minus side, 12188.78, for a total gain of 1251.19. I've been trading this ETF since 2019, but the majority of this position was taking during October 2020, and it looks like I'm going to be assigned on these shares, and my position will be closed. From October 1st, 2020 to April 16th, 2021, SPTM went from 41 to 52. Well, half of this position was taken in early February of 2021, and the other half, not the majority, was taken during October 2020 in small chunks throughout the month. I bought 100 shares in October of 2020, and another 100 on February 4th, 2021.

Although I think that I underperformed the market, I'm not sure if that's exactly the case, since half of these dollars are margin dollars.

...

306

So, on Monday I have to write covered calls on whatever wasn't assigned today. I'm going to try to put everything on June with whatever strike is just above my cost basis. I don't want to get greedy, and I don't need to be greedy, and I really want to mop up my positions and reevaluate what to do next.

I did a buy-write on a stock that I didn't make a whole lot of money on, in fact, it resulted in an immediate unrealize loss. Once the shares are assigned I'll have a realized gain, but only of 25 cents. Shitty.

It was this, I bought 100 shares of MUX at 109.72, then wrote a 1 dollar strike for a 10 cent premium, so when it's assigned I'll get 100, and I got 10 bucks already. Shitty.

...

307

I have to think. I don't know how to describe what I'm feeling right now, or how to explain it.

I made. fucking. goulash. like real. hardcore. goulash. well. maybe not. it's basically rice. pork. ramen noodles. and avocado. boiled with the chicken broth packages. it's actually kind of amazing. the avocado was only 60 cents.

the issue. is. date-ability.
am i un-date-able? 
i probably am.

the issue. is. date-ability. 
do i have to re-invent myself?
or over-compensate in one area
to cover for some perceived 
short-comings 
in some other area?

i wouldn't call it a premonition, but.
I've had this kind of. anxiety. of. continued. single-ness.

i have to fall asleep. i have work tonight. i ate as much of my goulash as i could, but it's rich and fatty and i guess I'll save it for later.

I struggled to fall asleep,
But when i finally did fall asleep
It turned out to be the most
Fabulous slumber.

The cacophony of the slums
At odds with my fatigue.
Exhaustion overcomes the
Need for silence.

Mariachi music
and not a single sombrero
In sight.

I wake up just minutes
  before i need to head out.

I think of two lines that 
never intersect, and then 
of two lines that only ever 
intersect once, 

and. Then.

I think of lines that orbit 
around the point 
where they intersect.

a comet that visits earth
once every thousand years.
are we ready to put a 
lander on it?

Or

Will we only 
watch it pass us by.

Interstellar objects we only
Ever see once. Interstellar
Objects we never see.

...

308

I'm approaching the end of day 2 of my work week. With the amount of money i spent on these dating site subscriptions i could have paid for my GMAT.

I think. I guess it's better to know. Then to wonder.

...

309

what do I do? well. Worry I guess. I'm eating breakfast. Kind of the same thing as the other day. Pork, avocado, and rice, no ramen. Strange food. but. it's what I got.

Honestly. it's strange food and i honestly really like it. I'm discouraged about the dating stuff, but, not about life in general.

...

310

Day 3 of the work week. I had a decent amount of rest, but no actual sleep. I thought heavy meals facilitate sleep, maybe they do, but I couldn't actually fall asleep. I don't know if I'm wearing the maroon pants that I scraped of lint or not, but these seem pretty clean. I'm wired on caffeine, and tired. At the same time. I wonder? Tired. What do I do? For the future?

Fall asleep. Today. Nap. Get home. Don't make breakfast. Sleep. Enjoy naps. When you get home. Try to fall asleep. Don't bother cooking. A lack of sleep will do more damage than missing breakfast, and anyway, you could always just buy fast food. Okay?

Okay.

Church people came by today. I was naked at the time. So i didn't open the door. They invited me to join their worship group, but i was tired. So i didn't join.

...

311

One more day and the work week is over. I'm not tired physically. I slept well yesterday. I'm just kind of out of the mood to work. I don't really have anything to do or take care of outside of work, so, there's really no incentive to not be at work.

...

312

I slept all of Wednesday as soon as I got home. I have to work on continuing to transfer funds from my Robinhood account to my Fidelity IRA and HSA accounts. I'll finish it up either this week or next.

My employer switched HSA administrators from some company I've never heard of, to Fidelity. I hesitated to complete the transfer because I figured the switch would take place in April, and then I could do the transfer with the Fidelity, rather than this other company. The new account with Fidelity has been set up, but it doesn't seem fully live, and the funds from the previous account haven't been transferred to the new account.

I got rid of the Zoosk, Tinder, and Hinge dating apps. I didn't really fill anything out on these, so.

What I'm nostalgic for most about Missouri and living in a small town, is whole, deep-fried catfish. No bullshit. When I was working at the airport, there was a younger guy who mentioned he lived in a small town outside the DFW metro area, and the way he described it made me think of Cameron, Missouri.

I was going to do some Door Dash work, I got gas, and had breakfast, and checked my mail, but I guess there isn't much volume at 8:52 AM. I guess that time is totally after breakfast, and not really a lunch hour either. I went back home, and that's where I'm at right now. I went through my mail and dealt with it, I had something come in from the US Copyright office.

...

313

I'm reverting back to the original titling scheme for just this one post, and then the titling sequence will continue with the format that it usually appears in when I post the next post. I'm cleaning up my blog a little bit, changing formats and whatever. Some doofus has a wifi connection name that is super goofy.

Well, whoever it is, he or she isn't the only one.

Do I have to do any Door Dash stuff? Well, financially, no, but I think that being consistent with things is important. I want to make a point of doing a few Door Dash deliveries once a week during my days off, and to be consistent about it, but I think that one of my more challenging time recently was when I was trying to push it with the Uber Eats deliveries. I was doing the 60 hour weeks at work, and filling up my free days, and a few hours each morning to doing Uber Eats deliveries. I was constantly irritated. I have to remember not to dive myself totally nuts chasing money that I don't totally need. That's why I'm doing a small amount of Door Dashing that I don't need to do, so I don't get into a situation where I have to push it doing a ton of Door Dashing that I have to do. When I was really pushing it with Uber Eats, I didn't need to push it, necessarily, but I did anyway.

It's been almost 4 hours from when I was going to start Door Dashing and ended up back home, to now, 

So I'm paid up on May's bills. They only thing I have to focus on now is getting those contributions topped off. I have 3 pay periods to do that, which I think is more than enough when combined with my Robinhood withdrawals.

I bought some stamps today. I purchased some of them online, and others from the actual post office, when I bought the sheets at the post office, they didn't have much of a selection.

...

314

I figured out the whole HSA thing, and now the only thing I have left to do for tax season is top off my IRA in the amount of 2000, and I have 3 weeks to do it. The HSA thing is my priority because the deadline is May, the deadline for the IRA is June.

It's 3:30 AM. I'm awake. I have work later today. Uploading some pictures of stamps, postmarked and pristine. and photographs of some other stuff. I have bills paid up through the end of May, The IRA thing isn't due until mid-June, and it's entirely feasible by mid-May. I guess it's feasible now, but, I mean, I guess feasibility is what you make of it, or how you think of it.

...

315

I have a notice from my landlord requesting that i submit my intention to renew or not renew my lease. Rent is going to be 30 bucks per month higher if I renew.

There was an issue when signing up for overtime next week. I was only able to sign up for one and a half overtime shifts rather than the usual 2 that I sign up for.

I talk about investing mostly to let people know what I'm doing with my money. It's not to brag or flex or offer advice or anything. People ask, so, I guess they wonder. I just want to make it clear that I'm not feeding some kind of unusual spending problem.

What am I thinking? Well, 30 bucks a month is 360 a year. My rent is 795, and renewing means paying 825 per month. I really have to think if I really want to do this or not.
And, honestly, I'm not sure what my other options would be.

A roommate. But i think this would be a less predictable option, maybe less expensive, but also less predictable.
Renewing my lease adds predictability to my situation, but reduces flexibility.
I want to completely delete zoosk, tinder and plenty of fish, not the the apps, but the actual accounts.

...

316

I went in an renewed my lease for 1 year. I received a recruiting email 1 minute after I received my lease renewal paperwork. The positions were California based. I deleted the email 5 seconds later. Here is how I feel: i never want to visit California, Nevada, or Missouri ever again. Ever. Ever again. Ever. 

Whatever confluence of events that caused me to leave those places. Whatever circumstances kept me from making a life in those places. I don't want to seem bitter. but. i am. bitter. and. I'm not going to apologize for feeling the way i feel.

I don't. Necessarily. Like. Texas. But. I think of this. As. My last stand. And. i know this may sound corny. But. This is Like. My Alamo.

...

317

At 10 am i renewed my lease. Didn't fall asleep until 12 pm.

there among the
trees hides a frog
croaking and singing
to a piggy.

...

318

I unmatched with someone I had a conversation with on Bumble the other night. I was interested, so I asked her to coffee. She said no, she was busy, and she said to keep asking and maybe she'll free up sometime.

I suggested that it may be more efficient for her to tell me when she's available, and I said that I'll just say yes.

I thought better of it later, and here's why, by giving her this option to go to coffee, I'm creating an obligation on my part to get coffee, and, I'm okay with that, but in my mind, options must have expiration dates, meaning, there has to be some point where I no longer have to say yes.

We didn't negotiate an expiration date for this coffee date option beforehand. So. I figured. it's expired.

Anyway. I'm ready to throw the towel in on this dating shit, online dating as well as any other miscellaneous forms of dating.

I think I've spent a total of 350 on online dating subscriptions over the years, I'm going to consider this a loss and eat the cost. Fuck it. Lesson learned. Won't do that again.

So. What now? Well. I'm thinking about ending the Sanford Street series, submitting a copyright application, and then moving on to something else. Not only in the titular sense, but thematically as well. 

So. There were a lot of things from the dating advice videos that i picked up. I'm going to go ahead and disregard most of it, but, the best piece of advice was. Have self-respect. Set boundaries. Delineate between what is acceptable and what isn't acceptable.

But. I think that. In spite of what i wrote earlier in this post. Maybe im not ready to call it quits yet with dating. I think i just need to refocus and re-strategize.

I haven't fallen asleep and it's almost 1 PM.
Almost 2:30 PM
Just took a shower. 320pm. Now im tired.

...

319

One thing about online dating, about dating apps. Is. Well. Even though I'm not getting any actual dates, is that, I'm being more consistent about self-care than i probably otherwise would be.

Have You ever looked at someone and said to yourself: that person is obviously not going through life with any intention whatsoever of ever getting laid. 

You know. You see people who look more or less like hell.  

Well. I guess the slim possibility of getting ass is enough for me to have a slightly elevated level of upkeep in terms of my appearance, but it's limited to shaving and trimming my nails at least every three days.

I'm not in a customer facing role, so being presentable. Having a presentable appearance. isn't part of my job, but ass. Yeah. Ass. It's why i shave my face and trim my nails. Ass is what motivates me. Somewhat. Ass has it's limitations, a concept which me might refer to as: "ass: motivations and limitations."

Ass and its discontents.
Poontang society and its discontents.

Ha!

Your booty alone
is everything
my heart has ever desired.

and your booty alone
can cure my sadness.

an end to this
indefinite despondence
by the sweet slender shape
of that ass.

your booty alone
defies the downward direction
of my dick

Your posterior
is
Whatever a moon 
Has always meant.

I'm simultaneously flattered and annoyed by this poem.

...

320

My work day is almost over and I'm really ready for it to be over.

I'm not tired, despite the fact that i slept maybe an hour the other day.

I have to think, renewing my mail box, or rerouting my mail to my apartment is next on my list. I haven't decided.

Then filing another copyright.

What else. I need to come up with an additional 360 sometime soon since my rent is increasing my 30 a month for the next year.

I have to think. If for some reason I have to go to college. It better be worth it.

...

321

I went straight home after work. I didn't bother to get groceries. I slept until 1 AM, then I went out to smoke, and my downstairs neighbor was near the stairs, we chatted and then we went out for lunch. I got back home around 3:30, and then slept until 5. I felt like I was running late, I almost didn't want to spend time shaving, but I shaved anyway.

One thing about living near the stadium is that traffic can be unpredictable. Collins can add 10 to 15 minutes depending on traffic from any events at the stadium.

I need to figure out the vaccine thing, and then the school thing as well.

A 5% rent increase isn't something to worry about, but it's also the kind of thing that compounds quickly, and in a very big way.

What I'm I thinking? I'm outside the grocery store. I'll go in at some point and buy food. Maybe something different this time. But I'm also not sure. Sodas for sure. I'm about to run out.

...

322

Taking my neighbor out to lunch the other day reminded me of how much I enjoy going out to eat.

...

323

I set up a dinner date with someone on OK Cupid the other night during my break at work. She cancelled this morning, saying that she felt like she really got to know me.

In my mind, that just seems odd. I thought people get to know each other by hanging out. I unmatched with her on the app and just let the whole thing go.

...

324

Well, anyway. Here is an approach that I'm going to take: if I match with someone, I'll ask the person out immediately, if the person isn't open to that, I'll just go ahead and un-match or disconnect.

The thing is, if dating apps aren't going to make the dating process easier, then I have to change my process to suit my needs; I'm not interested in paying for the subscription, and going for a more onerous dating process.

This goes with setting boundaries and knowing what's acceptable and unacceptable. It's unacceptable for me to pay for a dating app that makes my life harder, or makes my life more difficult.

Here is another thing. I'm going to come up with better criteria for deciding whether or not to use and pay for a dating app. Everything these days runs on algorithms, and I likewise need to be more algorithmic in my approach to things.

...

325

I went out to dinner with someone from OK Cupid. How do I summarize this? The easiest thing to do, I guess, is go step by step. This won't be a very compelling post to read, but, I just want to get it over with so I can think about what to do next, and discuss my thoughts and feelings about how things went.

She sends me a like on OK Cupid. I send one back, and send a message. I ask her out, she says yes. We exchange numbers. Then she cancels, saying we haven't talked enough first. I unmatched her on OK Cupid, I send her a text saying I'm fine with the cancellation and that I'm super dangerous anyway. Then I delete the text conversations thinking that it's over and done.

She texts back and reopens the offer. I accept. We exchange additional texts. Then we meet up.

So here are my thoughts and feelings. I don't think that she and I have very much in common. Both in terms of interests and life experiences and lifestyles and myriad of other things, but I felt that this had the advantage of giving us something to talk about, and gave each of us something to hear about that we hadn't heard about before.

I think what kept the momentum of the conversation going came more from she and I having mutually compatible personalities and temperaments more than mutual interests.

but I honestly don't really expect to have mutual interests with anyone. And yet. I'm still able to make friends and develop affinities and connections with other people.

I found her really. Physically attractive. She has a really pretty face, and I really like her body. I think she has a really great body.

...

326

It's early in the morning. I've been sleeping since I got back home.

I work tonight. Just a half shift. I've actually been avoiding half shifts for several months now. I would typically request time off on the half shift, and then sign up for a full shift, rather than work a half shift and sign up for a second half shift when offered.

Part of the motivation for this is to use my vacation and paid time off. The balances are capped, so it makes sense to burn enough of it off to allow it to continue accumulating. Once it's capped, it stops accumulating.

The other motivation is to reduce the amount of time I spend commuting relative to the amount of time I spend working. The round-trip commute is 80 minutes, 46 miles. Working 2 separate 6 hours shifts means commuting twice as much as I would if I were to work a single 12 hour shift instead.

Our employer is giving us raises. There were raises at some point last year, but I was part of the employee tier that didn't get one at the time.

There was an opening for a higher tier at my work, but after reading the details, I might be disqualified due to an active write up. Or 2.

As far as dating goes: I have to be careful. I don't want to fall into the trap of becoming someone's lunch-card, or meal-ticket or whatever.

I'm looking at my Robinhood portfolio, and I'm standing at 24% of my holdings are ETF's. I need to rebalance this. This is probably due mainly to my recent options assignment on my SPTM shares, which made up about two-thirds of my ETF holdings. I want to say that I want to keep it around 80%, I'm guessing that I was at 72% before the assignment, and that's actually not too far off from where I want things to be.

My HSA holdings are almost all ETF's. My IRA is mostly individual stocks. The reason for holding individual stocks in my IRA, rather than index funds, is to have voting right. I'm not sure how valuable these voting rights really are, and if they're worth the possible portfolio underperformance relative to the index.

I bought one share of almost every company I've worked for, or with, some have gone bankrupt, private, or have been delisted from an exchange.

Then there is Amazon. I only own half a share, but I'll buy a full one soon. I have 2000 more than I need to contribute to my IRA by mid-May for the 2020 contribution year, and that should be enough. It should be. If not, I could always make contributions for the 2021 contribution year.

I uploaded a whole bunch of photos to my Facebook profile. Mostly updates to my Finance album, and my Leprechaun album.

I haven't updated either one in a very long time. I was uploading them to my blog, as well as to Instagram, but Facebook is the easiest to upload large amounts of photographs to, and I really wanted to get those photos posted somewhere.

Dating. Finding a relationship is a priority. And it's also not actually a huge priority.
Or maybe.
It's a priority, but not way up on my list of things that I need to totally freak out about.
My motivation for finding a relationship is more pragmatic than idealistic.

...

327

I'm hungry. I'm going to eat at a buffet, but I'm also going to acknowledge that I'm spending to much money, or, that I've been spending an elevated amount of money lately. I'll scale back. I'm just really hungry right now. I haven't had seafood in a while. The buffet is the most cost effective way to satisfy that need, even more than going to the grocery store.

I'm burnt out on eating sausage and rice. I should probably shop around the next time I'm at the grocery store. See what other options there are.

Lunch worked out to 20 bucks. I left the buffet, and then remembered to vote in the local elections, so I went ahead and did that, then I had to go back to the restaurant to pick up my card.

I was going to sign into Door Dash and do deliveries, but they never seem to be busy. The message is usually that it's going to be busy later.

If Door Dash has the lion's share of the food delivery business, but never seems to be busy when I sign in, I'm guessing it's due to a glut of drivers. My guess would be that Uber Eats sent pings a lot quicker because, most Uber Eats drivers would also have the option of taking passengers, which tends to pay more for the same amount of work. Pick up. Drop off. It's the same if it's food or a person.

The other thing that this tells me is that I can't really just go out to eat, and then Door Dash a little until I've paid for lunch.

It means that I have to go back to being extremely strict with my Amazon money, and probably, starting now. If I can't earn money on a whim, I can't spend money on a whim either. And maybe these Door Dash difficulties are the Universe telling me as much.

The other night I went to a bar with a woman from my neighborhood. They didn't have any food, just fries, so I ordered that. It wasn't a date. I don't consider it to have been a date. And I don't plan on dinners with her ever becoming dates. But I've been wanting to take her out to dinner for a while. So I did.

As far as dating goes, I was kind of put-off by the way the night ended with the woman in Carrolton. I think she was put-off as well. The drive home was long and agonizing.

I want to block her number, but I also want to see her again, but I'm also not looking to put myself through additional agony; I want to give it two weeks to see if anything develops, but I'm sure it was over as soon as I got into my car and turned on the ignition, if not slightly before then.

Dating is just agonizing for me. It really is. I want to re-strategize my approach. But I also want to consider that being single might be just fine, and not just single, but kind of solitary.

I can pursue a kind of solitary lifestyle without any great reproach from my social circle, mainly because I don't have a social circle. I can't receive reproach if there's really no one to express reproach.

How does success in life come about? Is it the story of the tortoise and the hare? Is it the slow and consistent grind that gets you there? Or is it the story of Archimedes? The eureka moment?

At what point am I going to file the copyright for the Sanford Street series? I don't really know. I don't want all the copyrights I file to be clustered around the year 2020. I want to file something for 2021.

I'm thinking about this: I'll maintain the sequence of the series, but just file the series as it is now as Letters from Sanford Street, Part 1. Then continue, and then wherever the series ends will be files as Part 2.

I didn't get around to doing any Door Dashing. I used the free time to write this post and really think about things. I used the remainder of my vacation time, since there is going to be a moratorium on vacation time use beginning in June. I used all my vacation time to take Wednesdays off throughout May.

Dating? As discouraged as I am about the whole thing. Maybe I'll just keep at it. I'm both conflicted and indifferent about it.

I'm thinking about stock options. I've never bought an option before, except to close out a position that I originally opened, but I've kind of found a rationale for buying them that occurred to me a while ago.

Well, there is this idea that owning a call option that is deep in the money is similar to owning the underlying stock outright, and this is something that I realized while trying to sell call options. Selling a call option that is deep in the money is similar to selling the stock outright.

I wanted to sell a deep in the money call option on shares that I didn't really want to sell outright, I wanted to do this to free up cash without selling the shares.

Selling a deep in the money covered call results in selling the upside potential of the underlying shares to the buyer of the call option. If the premium is sufficient, then why not? But the premiums usually aren't very sufficient.

I went ahead and blocked the number of that chick I went out to dinner with in Carrollton. I kept re-living the last few agonizing moments of the date in my head, analyzing every detail of our conversations, and it was driving me nuts. I figured blocking her number was the best thing for me to do. But this was symbolic more than practical. I don't think she was planning on reaching out again, and neither was I.

Dating is really just really agonizing. Really. Really. really. agonizing. I logged back in to OK Cupid, i swiped left and right a little, but it wasn't long before i figured: fuck this. 

I'm really just not ready to endure any additional. Like. Aggravation.

Is this making me happy? It is not making me happy. I shouldn't do things that make me unhappy. A relationship is not a necessary prerequisite for a fulfilling life.

This is one area of my life. Where. I just don't need to be outside of my comfort zone. I'm pretty sure this aspect of life is optional, and, if it's something that's going to destabilize my psyche, then, it's better that I just don't do it.

...

328

I cracked my ashtray. I use a glass cup as my ashtray, and while emptying my tobacco pipe, i cracked the glass cup.

To clean my pipe, i guess I'll just tap it against my car door.

The framework for most dating advice videos seems to be that women are a certain way, and men have to adapt.

There isn't a notion that there should be some kind of meeting of minds. Or anything like, two people seeing eye to eye, or meeting each other half way, or, meeting in the middle.

I think that dating advice
Should
Be
Taken with a little bit of caution.
Followed with an eye
Toward exercising prudence.

Guys are usually dichotomized into high-value men and low-valued men. Sometimes into alpha males and beta males, or men who are perceived as attractive to women and men who are perceived as unattractive to women.

Different dating coaches have different dichotomies, some use the three interchangeably, some make distinctions between the three.

They describe dating in a few different ways:

There are basically winners and losers in the games that women play, here is how to win, and here is how to lose.

Or

There are tests that women give to men, and here is how to pass the test, and here is how to fail the test.

Or

That women communicate tacitly, and here is how to interpret her messages correctly, and here is how to interpret her messages incorrectly.

I think. Ultimately.
That 
With dating advice
And dating decisions.
Like with all things.
That it's important to think
For yourself about
What's best.
For you.

Tired
Moderately irritated
Moody
A little grouchy

Be mindful
Of your stressors,
And be
Mindful of
Your triggers.

If dating is going to
Give you grief
Then 
you might consider
Just not doing it.

Romantic
Relationships really aren't
As fabulous as 
dating coaches
Suggest they are.

Dating coaches
need to make
A living, 

just like everyone
Else, 

So
They create the need
For a relationship
And in turn
The need for
Dating advice.

But the truth is,
Kenneth.

If you 
Approach dating
And courtship
In a way that's unnatural
To you
You're definitely going
To end up with the
Wrong person.

You're highly unusual.
To say the least.
And.

You don't have to follow
Any of the dating rules because.
The only woman who
Will ever be right for you.

Is the one who doesn't
Follow any of the
Rules either.

So.

You can go ahead and
Focus on your stamp
Collection or whatever
The fuck you're doing 
these days.

Don't do things that make
You miserable.
If this dating shit makes you 
Miserable.
Then don't do it.
It's as simple as that.

Remember: you can go
Out to eat twice as often
If you are only taking yourself
Out.

I'm thinking that I need to keep my face shaved. I think the stubble on my face turns the fibers of my mask into fuzz, it ends up really tickling my face.

Today, Tuesday, I didn't fall asleep until around 12:30 PM. I've been kind of left swiping and un-matching with a vengeance on the dating apps. Tuesday is my last shift for this week, sort of, i have Wednesday off then I work two days.

I rolled a put option today, bought to close for may, then sold to open for November. A really small profit on this one, sold to open for 78, bought to close for 74, this new sell to open was for 109, and i don't have to deal with it until November.

Yeah Kenneth, don't worry
About the ladies, 
Think about stock options.
Jack off to your stock
Market gains.
Fucking gains brodie. 

Honestly, sometimes 
nice gains are better 
than tail. True talk.

You know, for a guy that
Is more or less at the bottom
Of the totem pole. You're doing
A great job with the money you
Earn.
I'm really hungry.

...

329

At home. Sleepy. I just want to sleep. I didn't bother picking up groceries on my way back home.

I'm off tomorrow. I think that I want to focus on myself. Focus on doing the things that make me happy. Focus on the things that I'm interested in. Focus on developing me. Decluttering. Not just reducing physical clutter, but mental and emotional clutter as well.

I went through Instagram and Facebook and unsubscribed as best as I could to any ass and tits accounts. I'm not taking on a new moral direction or anything. I still love ass. I still love tits. I just want to think of ass and tits less.

I don't have anything on my mind right now other than that I have tomorrow off. I want to get my thoughts in writing, but I'm not thinking much right now.

Okay. The deadline for the IRA thing is May 17th. I have 2 more pay periods between now, and when I need to get that completed, and about 2000 out of the 6000 left to contribute. The HSA thing is done, and I've contributed 4000 so far to the IRA. Really, I have until June, but I'm not sure if I want to cut it that close in terms of time. I'm cutting it close on terms of money, though. I have about 600 right now in cash, and these next two pay checks should be just over 1800. I have plenty of cash collateral that I can tap into, but, it's fucking collateral, and I don't want to tap into it.

Total collateral for May is 18560. That's stock collateral at the current market price, and cash collateral.

I'm thinking about something. Conventional wisdom suggests that people sell some of their holdings during the month of May.

...

330

I'm tired. I want to do some food delivery stuff, but I'm just dead tired. I could probably do it tomorrow. I work tomorrow, but, my thinking is that if I rest today, I'll have more energy to do it tomorrow. I ate way too much food for breakfast. Bacon, and rice, and I still have some of my meal on my table right now.

When it comes to dating, I just think that I'm way too out of it. I mean I really don't want to do it. I really. I'm tired. I don't want to think about it. I just don't. It makes me moody.

I worked 12 hours, and got off work at 6:30 AM. That's how it always is. Got home, got groceries, made breakfast, then went to sleep. Woke up at around 11:00 AM, and I've been awake ever since. I'm feeling sad, but I think that it just has to do with having not had any sleep right now.

I washed my clothes. Since I hang dry my clothes, and since the last few days have been rainy days, my clothes have taken forever to dry, or at least the last load. I think that they've been hanging on my drying racks for several days now.

I unfollowed the boob ladies on twitter. Or at least as many as I could find. I just went down the list of social media personalities that I'm following, and unfollowed any profiles with substantial amounts of cleavage in the profile picture. Even though a profile pic with substantial amounts of cleavage in it doesn't necessarily mean that the person is a boob lady, I just wanted to clean up my list of icons that I'm following as expediently as possible.

I'll continue to clean things up as I come across them, but I think that I have most of it. On facebook, however, sometimes it isn't clear to me if a person is a boob lady, or a lady who I know who just so happens to have boobs, and, for one reason or another, really like to take cleavage shots of herself.

...

331

I want to say that I feel pretty refreshed and energized. I don't know how long this extra energy will last.

I added a small amount of funds to my interactive brokers account. I don't think that having a ton of different accounts is the best idea, and really just makes things more difficult than they need to be, but there is potentially something I hope to accomplish by having this account in use again.

It does involve holding individual stocks in order to vote, but really, there hasn't been anything interesting to vote on in the elections that I have voted on. Usually just voting for the board members, who I don't know anything about anyway, and the auditing firm. Boring.

One thing that I forgot about Interactive Brokers is how long it take for funds that I transfer to Interactive Brokers to become available for trading.

I'm going to get ready to go, and to start my day. I really do feel energized. And I really did sleep for nearly 24 hours solid.

Every time I log into DoorDash it's never busy. I spend all this time getting ready and there's nothing to do. My guess is that the goal is to keep whoever is logged into the app as busy as possible, if too many drivers flood the app at the same time, then thr orders are spread out too thin for anyone to really make any money for the time they log in. I mean, not just other than DoorDash, but other than driving app gigs.

Gas stations never seem to have receipt paper at the pumps. 100 percent of the time they ask you to go in and pick up the receipt from the clerk inside the store.

This is probably to get people to go into the store to buy something, but, this can have a negative effect of creating lines where there don't need to be lines. I've stopped picking up receipts, but I might start making a point to picking them up and being part of the line. If the gas station insists on wasting my time, I might as well insist on wasting theirs.

Someone sent me a text seeing if I want to hang out, but I know that this is either going to tie up my time, or I'm going to end up spending money, or a combination of the two. So I just left the conversation hanging. Making money just isn't that easy, or as easy as people think, or as east as people say it is. Maybe there will be a point in my life where I get a break and money will be easy, or, I'll find some thing that I just do fabulously well that makes money easily. Well, that's not the way it is right now. If it ever does become easy, then I have to hold on to it just in case it never gets easy again.

I rolled 2 options from May to November. I had a realized gain, but because of the bid and ask spread, I'll have an unrealized loss.

I rolled 1 more option. I have a realized loss, but a net credit.

I placed 2 limit orders to buy to close 2 put options, if executed, I'd have a realized gain on both, the bid / ask spreads were pretty wide, and my bids were higher than the existing bids.

Time isn't something you can get back, and spending that time sleeping is kind of the least optimal use of time. Of course, sleep is necessary, but, maybe I overslept yesterday.

Your body needs to 
renew itself
And your mind needs to
Clear its thoughts
And you do need
To relax some time.

Don't push yourself too
Hard otherwise you
May end up pushing
Yourself back.

A slow pace forward
Is preferable to a fast
Pace forward 
that ends up
Sending you 
back somewhere 
You don't really 
want to end up.

I went ahead and cancelled my limit orders. I want to be able to roll them, and, I want to say that I've found it better to roll them on the date of expiration, since the bid / ask spreads are usually tighter, and if they're not, then I can just say: fuck it, because they'll automatically get assigned anyway, and I can figure out what to do next once that happens.

I need to figure out what to do once the May options expiration date hits. I'll have quite a bit of cash to reinvest, and I don't think that I'm going to stuff everything into the month of June like I normally would. I think I'm going to go with July, August, and September, and play June with incoming funds. Or something. Or play June with half of the funds, July, August, and September with the other half, and put incoming funds between June and July.

I don't know. I want to have even out my exposure over different months. Rather than having everything clustered in the upcoming month, or upcoming few months, and I want to even things out, even with respect to the cover calls that I write.

...

332

Another work day. I'm just thinking about what I want to do with my Interactive Brokers portfolio. I don't want to buy anything that is particularly dog-shit in nature, but I don't plan on dumping huge amounts of money into this account all at once, or even very quickly. Just small amounts of money over time. I don't really like buying fractional shares, but I think I might just go back to doing that. I have to think about how much, per week, I want to add to my Interactive Brokers account. I only put in 20 bucks. The design is a whole lot different than it was earlier in the year.

I'm thinking about going ahead and buying fractional shares of an ETF to keep my money parked, and then once I have enough parked in the ETF, sell, and use the funds to buy full shares of stocks that I want. Or maybe just going ahead and buying fractional shares of the stocks that I want. We'll see.

I think I have an idea for my Interactive Brokers portfolio. First, I'm going to pick up ETFs that pay monthly dividends, that dividend themed, and have positive capital appreciation. Then I'm going to emphasize dividend themed ETFs with a lower expense ratio.

ETFs that pay monthly dividends usually have higher expense ratios than similar ETFs that pay dividends less frequently.

So, why dividends?

Well, I don't exactly have an answer for that. They're kind of a pain in the ass when you think about it. They make option plays more complicated.

I'm still thinking about what approach I want to take with my Interactive Brokers account. The thing about focusing on dividend ETFs and dividend stocks is that dividends have a higher prevalence among some sectors than others. And this may result im skewed sector exposure.

But what kind of sector exposure is appropriate anyway?

And

How often are companies within a given sector somewhat miscategorized?

The work day is almost over, but this last stretch between breaks felt like forever. I don't know why.

I realize that I didn't eat anything on Thursday. On Wednesday I ate breakfast. A pound of bacon, and rice. Thursday I just ate crackers.

I saw one of the most amazing things ever. This guy showed me his real Robinhood account, and had a 15 thousand dollar gain on his cryptocurrency positions. I didn't even make that much in the last 12 months.

Well, I'll look into it at some point. The cryptocurrency stuff. The problem I had with the conversation I had with him was that he spent more time being critical of what I was doing, and not really enlightening me about what he was doing, and he only explained what he was doing in what seemed to me to be very general terms.

Well, I do feel like a little bit of a loser.

I'm outside the grocery store and I just saw a fabulously pretty woman walk by.

What I'm thinking about is: what would I rotate into if I had fabulous cryptocurrency gains?

I was wondering if that kind of performance, quadrupling an account in less than a month, like is that possible? Well, I've seen it before with some of the stock options I sold. A few SPLG and SPTM calls went up 400 and 500 percent from when I sold them. Multiple times. I want to say the SPTM calls went from 15 to 90.

I still made double digit gains on my position, but, I would have preferred triple digit gains like the guy who bought the options I sold. I think spectacular gains are possible regardless of what you take a position on.

I have been underperforming the market in kind of, what I can only describe as the most amazing way possible. So. I'm going to see if there is something I can do to reposition things.

What kind of constraints am I facing? Before the end of May I need 2000 for the IRA and 1650 for June's bills. I have 1100 cash. I should have another 1100 in cash on the 14th. I want to say that I have somewhere between 15000 and 18000 in stock and cash collateral on hold until May 21st.

I don't know why I have so much clustered on that date. This capital cluster could easily become a cluster fuck.

or 

This Cluster of Capital could easily become a Cluster of Fuck.

So. I'll never forget the first covered call that I wrote on my PEY shares. I sold it for 10 bucks, and the contract would later hit as high as 70 bucks, and this happened in less than 2 weeks. 700 percent in less than 2 weeks on some bullshit dividend ETF that traded sideways nearly all of 2020.

I think that I only made 200 or 300 bucks on that position.

Anyway, even though the guy was kind of condescending and it kind of threw me off. I mean, you can triple your money regardless of what you do. It doesn't have to be cryptocurrency. So. I won't worry too much about it.

So. Last thing before I go to sleep. I'm going to put a stop to all unnecessary spending until the end of the year.

I mean, unless I get really pussy whipped, but I hardly get any pussy anyway, so. Odds of getting pussy whipped are slim. And. When a woman is irresponsible with money, I find myself really turned off.

Maybe if I were able to get money a whole lot easier, then, maybe it wouldn't bother me so much.

...

333

So my position on BBVA is similar to kind of what I was facing with LYG not to long ago. The intrinsic value of the covered calls I wrote, and the cost to buy the options to close the position are almost the same. There's something like a 10 dollar difference.

The mark on the covered calls is 95 and the intrinsic value is 91.

I'm going to leave the BBVA issue on the back burner for now. I think that, at some point, I figured I'd leave this issue alone, and I think I'm going to leave the BBVA issue alone. 

At some point, Robinhood stopped supporting trading in ADRs for companies based in Spain.

I had cash secured put options on SAN with a 3 dollar strike or 3.5 strike, they expired out of the money, so I never ended up acquiring the shares, but they were in the money when I wrote them, so I collected a nice premium on them.

Same thing though, SAN and BBVA are both large banks based out of Spain, so even if I acquired the SAN shares, my play would be limited to holding and collecting dividends until deciding, at some point, to sell.

I wouldn't have hesitated to roll the covered calls forward, or forward and up, but, that play isn't available, I'm limited to buying the calls back to close the covered call position, or letting them get assigned.

No unnecessary spending for the foreseeable future, the end of the year, or, something, until I hit the appropriate milestone.

So. I'm switching to eggs. Hehe. Thing is. I think eating meat makes me tired.

I'm eating my eggs and rice breakfast and it is the most bland thing ever. I had salt, a while ago, at some point in my apartment. Not any more, though. I used it as a skin scrub at some point.

So I did 2 things. I reviewed my 401K plan fees, and, it doesn't appear that it has any, what I mean is, my 401K plan with Case New Holland had some kind of record keeping fee that was incurred quarterly or semi-annually, and I wanted to check if I had a similar fee with my current plan. I couldn't find one, not in the plan literature, or in my statements since starting with the company back in June 2020. Of course, there is an expense ratio that varies from mutual fund to mutual fund, but that's not really what I was looking for, because that's basically charged against the performance of the fund. What I was looking for was any kind of ongoing fee associated with maintaining the account.

I was going to do something silly, like, put 12.5 percent in 8 different domestic equity funds, including company stock, but, for some reason, I couldn't elect company stock when I was changing my investment elections. Then I was going to select the S&P 500 Index Mutual fund, which I already have, and then add Large Cap Growth, Large Cap Value, and Large Cap ESG, the ESG uses the term Social Index or something.

To make it short, I just went with the Index, and with the Growth fund. So. I figure that I'll add the others later. One issue I have with buying multiple large cap funds is that, it might be that by buying different large cap funds, I'm essentially buying different slices of the same pie, that, when taken together, resemble the regular ass pie, so why should I pay the higher expense ratios of these different slices when the different slices will, when taken together, really just look like the fucking index? The ESG fund, for example, had an expense ration ten times higher than the index fund, .14% is extremely small, but, it's still ten times higher than .014%, you know what I mean?

I also increased my contributions from 4% to 10%. I can actually go as high as 90%. I would really like to contribute the full 19500. I mean, that would be amazing, but that's kind of a crazy thing to do. I think that I'm going to leave it at 10% for the time being.

Putting to much in all at one time is risky, and, without a firm rationale for taking that risk, it just doesn't make sense. So, I'm just going to cruise at 10% for the time being.

I keep getting marketing emails from the University of Texas, Arlington. Every time I think about it, or think about applying, I hear this female voice beckoning me to go. I'll get around to it.

Okay, so, I waited nearly all day for a scheduled Dash. I had come around to accepting that I have to schedule a time to do Dashes and I figured: I guess that's just the way it is.

Anyway, I managed to do 2 deliveries, but the 3rd delivery caused me quite a bit of grief. It was a pick-up at McDonald's, which I normally don't have any issues with, but in this case, the lobby was closed, so the pick-up had to be done at the drive-thru. Usually, at least from my experience when I was delivering food through Uber Eats, drive-thru pick-ups are only required during the night, but, because the lobby was under construction, this pick-up had to be done at the drive-thru during the day.

Being in the drive-thru just really, creates a hell of a lot of anxiety for me. I'm pretty sure that it was the drive-thru pick-ups that probably got me into the most trouble when delivering food for Uber Eats, and that's pretty much all I did since I would usually deliver early in the morning after getting off work at the factory, or nights on my days off since that's just the way my sleep cycle works from working nights at the factory.

I've got to figure something else out in terms of gig-work. Or, just making extra money in general. I don't want to dissuade anyone from doing any kind of food delivery stuff. I think that any. normal. kind of person. can get through the drive-thru without having total panic attack.

I'm not a snowflake, or anything, and. I'm not going to ask the universe to accommodate me or anything. like. as far as drive-thru pick-ups are concerned.

I was much more active when I was delivering with Uber Eats than I was when delivering with Door Dash. I decided not to get too aggressive with my Door Dash delivery work because I Uber Eats aggressiveness with my 2 write-ups at work, in really kind of rapid succession. So when I signed up for Door Dash I really went into it with the idea that I really didn't want to risk my job for my side-hustle.

Door Dash has some advantages over Uber Eats, and Uber Eats has some advantages over Door Dash. I want to say that with Door Dash, the fares seemed, on average, to be higher. I would still get these 2.50 or 3.00 deliveries, but, when dropping them off, either through Uber Eats or Door Dash, it was usually apparent that the person I was dropping off to probably didn't have a car. and. I really feel like those deliveries are kind of. like. almost community service. If you get those small dollar deliveries, honestly, just do them. If you find yourself in the country club or mansions neighborhood, just realize that the person is probably on section 8 or some kind of housing assistance, and, well, we all have to eat, don't we?

On the lines of delivering food as a form of community service, even though you're getting paid for it. Honestly, I was very resentful when I read a story of some District Attorney who was demoted from his position because he was Door Dashing. I thought that was a pretty shitty move on the part of whoever did that. I mean, come on, someone making 160 thousand a year, or whatever the fuck he was making, clearly didn't need to do Door Dashing for the money. 

Okay, so. Yeah. I think the fares are higher with Door Dash as opposed to Uber Eats, and the other thing is that Door Dash has clearly delineated delivery zones, so, you really don't end up too far from the neighborhood you start your deliveries in. Door Dash also doesn't really allow you to log in unless there are a decent number of deliveries, so, unlike Uber Eats, you're not really idling for a very long time.

Uber Eats, however, will let you sign in even if there aren't very many, or even any deliveries to make, but this actually has a surprising benefit. One thing I would do, when I was signed up with Uber Eats, is, I would sign in to Uber Eats as soon as I got off work, knowing that I might, or might not get any deliveries.

So I would basically sign in to Uber Eats, and start on my commute home, and figured that if I was pinged for any deliveries, then, well, making a few bucks on may way home would be a bonus. If I didn't get any deliveries, then, oh well, I was on my way home anyway. I don't think that this approach is possible with Door Dash, since Door Dash uses delivery zones, rather than sending you to the nearest restaurant with a pick-up.

Door Dash has Peak Pricing, which is similar to Surge Pricing with Uber, and the peak pricing can actually be quite high, like a bonus of 3 dollars per delivery, and I've honestly never seen Surge pricing like that when doing Uber Eats. Uber Eats would have some campaigns that would work out to an extra 5 dollars per delivery, but you would have to meet a minimum threshold of deliveries to qualify for the bonus payout, and this is where I want to say: when you get pinged for those 3 dollar deliveries, just do them.

Going back to the drive-thru pick up that I nearly died while doing, or I guess, not doing. I get the feeling that if I get a bunch of drive-thru pick-up orders with Door Dash, that I'm just going to get kicked off Door Dash the way I got kicked off Uber Eats.

I really should just focus on a few critical things. Not getting any additional write-ups, not getting fired, and trying to move up at work, there are roles that my employer has that aren't necessarily on the leadership / management track, and are upward career moves. The role I'm most interested in is working with the machines, the second would be working with the robots.

...

334

I'm eating rice and eggs again today, and I still can't believe how bland this meal is, but it's cheap. Eggs work out to about 90 cents per pound, and rice is about 45 cents per pound. This is cheaper than ramen noodles, which are already super cheap.

So. For now I'm just going to stick with the index fund, I changed my mind yesterday. So nothing to the growth fund for now. I might change my mind on that later, but I will keep my contributions at ten percent, and that is a change I'm sticking with for the time being. I want to stick with what I'm comfortable buying, all the time, no matter what. At least for now, anyway.

Ekphrastics: Midnight Garden

Monarch butterflies are going extinct:
the careless destruction of habitat
and overuse of pesticides is linked
to the death of butterflies and moths that

pollinate our crops and feed bats and birds
we need regulations, and rules, and laws
that protect the bugs: we need more than words,
we need to keep butterflies from the jaws

of extinction. Imagine how the world
would be without bugs to eat the garbage
that humans produce, the garbage unfurled
all across the landscape: a hopeless age

where insects no longer live beside us,
we need legislation that will guide us.

So the main thing about 401 K contributions isn't necessarily building a retirement nest egg, so much as it is reducing my adjusted gross income for the current tax year, this is also the case for traditional IRA contributions and HSA contributions. I had to look this up, but 401 K is actually styled 401k, or even more accurately, 401(k). No space. Anyway. The goal is reducing my adjusted gross income, or my tax income, or, the goal is to reduce my tax liability for a given tax year.

There are about 35 weeks left in the year. So were looking at

3500    at   10 %
7000    at   20 %
10500  at   30 %
14000  at   40 %
17500  at   50 %

These are just estimates, anything could happen from now until the end of the year. 

There is an element of risk to increasing my 401(k) contributions that increases as my contributions increases. There are any number of types of risks, but the risk I want to focus on is what I want to call Cash Crunch Risk, and this risk would be the risk of contributing so much to my 401(k) that I'm not able to pay my bills and shit. Something like Market Risk, or investment risk, or whatever, probably won't change if I increase my contributions from four percent to eight percent, that kind of risk should remain the same if my investment selections remain the same, but the risk of a cash crunch is double. Maybe. I don't really know.

So how do I figure out what my risk of a cash crunch is? I want to say that my risk of a cash crunch at four percent is zero, but this couldn't be true because the risk of a cash crunch at forty percent is more than zero. Forty percent is ten times bigger than four percent, right? So, if the risk of a cash crunch at four percent is zero, like, if it really is zero, then the risk of a cash crunch at forty percent must also be zero, since ten times zero is still zero, but this is definitely not true, so the idea that my Cash Crunch Risk at four percent is zero must also not be true, even if my risk of a cash crunch at four percent really is almost next to nothing. So what is my cash crunch risk at these various contribution levels?

One way to figure this out would be to figure out what contribution rate would definitely cause a cash crunch, or bring cash crunch risk to one-hundred percent, and then work my way backward following either a liner trajectory, or exponential trajectory.

I really want to go with thirty percent, but is that possible? and why should I do this if I'm more or less not going to see that money for however the hell long? So thirty percent is potentially impossible, and here is why. I have to account for the possibility that there may be times where we don't have as much overtime as we do now. 

One thing that I might possibly be able to do is switch back and forth between thirty percent and four percent as needed, or as appropriate, or between, you know, ninety percent and four percent as needed, or something, or to be more active with changing my contributions depending on the situation, but, I don't think that I'm going to do that.

Here is what I'm thinking: increases only, small and deliberate, and try to hit 10000 in contributions to my 401(k) by the end of the year.

My shirt is somewhat smelly. It's hot today. I cleaned the seats in my car with a damp cloth, and suds formed. At some point I soaked my seats in detergent, but this was way back when I was in Missouri, I didn't think the soap would still be in the cloth of my seats.

Anyway. I had a feeling that there is something about my car that irritates my eyes. Maybe it was all this detergent in the seats of my car. Chemical vapors.

I had a houseguest over, just briefly, before work. There was no invitation on my part, she sort of just invited herself over.

She stayed with me for a few days during the blizzard back in February.

I honestly feel bad. In the sense that I kind of feel guilty. On OK Cupid I kind of limit myself to non-monogamous connections only, and I feel guilty about. Well. I don't know. I just feel guilty about it.

I got groceries on Saturday, after getting off work. Just a case of eggs. I've already eaten 14. Eggs are the most boring food ever.

So for my IRA I want to round up my 1 share of Amazon, get 1 share of DoorDash, and then, funds permitting, focus on any companies that are in Texas, or finance companies that have cryptocurrency exposure, but aren't exclusively cryptocurrency companies, and maybe companies that are in the manufacturing or materials category.

The primary focus of my IRA isn't maximizing returns, so much as it is acquiring shares in companies that I'm interested in, the main financial benefit I seek from contributing to a traditional IRA is reducing my Adjusted Gross Income. Of course I want gains, so I'll make smart picks.

Gas prices are getting really high. I could have sworn they were 90 cents per gallon lower less than a year ago.

About my shirt being smelly: the smell seemed to dissipate after a while. I hang dry my clothes, so.

So, goals: don't get written up. Don't get fired. Try to pursue an upward position at work once my current write ups age of my file. Retake the GMAT. Apply at the University of Texas at Arlington.

I think that the positions fixing the machines, and the positions fixing the robots require specialize training. So. I have to see about how that works.

...

335

I made breakfast yesterday. Sausage. Rice. And 2 eggs. Boring. I didn't get a chance to eat it until after I woke up. A nice rest. Deep sleep.

I didn't get a chance to eat any of my food at home, so I tool my food with me. The whole pot, as in, the actual pot I cooked it in.

When I went grocery shopping; I bought several boxes of cheese crackers, and ate an entire box in the parking lot. I guess I wasn't very hungry afterward.

How much uncertainty in life is really there, and how much in totally overstated?

I've gotten into the habit of tuning things out that I find unpleasant. Like thinking about dating and relationships.

As a special needs adult, I have to realize that my life might not always take the same trajectory that everyone else's life does.

I have to come to terms with the limitations that life places on me.

Anyway. In a few minutes it will be Tuesday. I'm not sure what's on my mind. Rolling options. It's kind of like rolling calendar items that I just don't get to. Vice versa is really the way I'm thinking of it, rolling calendar items is like rolling options.

Re-taking the GMAT has been on my calendar for a while, and, it's just something I kind of haven't gotten to. The GMAT is thr first step in any kind of graduate school plans I might have.  

I remember in Las Vegas how quickly I wad able to tackle the whole process, the exams, the application, studying, and how everything fell apart so quickly.

That was three years ago. I hate thinking back to it. Thinking about Las Vegas.

Tuning things out.

I try to clear my news feed of anything that causes me to look back at the hard times. Or really just anything unpleasant. Or anything that really doesn't matter to me. Anything that's a distraction. What's the point of being distracted. What's the point in being unhappy. What's the point of being envious. Out of sight. Out of mind.

I set up an appointment to get the vaccine. Wednesday afternoon.

I have to get these calendar items a kind of order. A kind of priority. Or something. Or I'm probably going to keep rolling them forever into the future.

I almost feel as if. As soon as I start making any long term plans, something comes up that requires me to pivot in a new direction.

Like. For example. Renewing my registration in Texas for 2 years rather than 1. I don't think there is a huge price advantage in doing so, and I'm also not sure that this is a possibility. If I relocate, I doubt I'll get a refund. 

I know that I'm going to stay in Texas for at least a year. Since I renewed my lease. Where would I go if I had to relocate? I have no idea.

My covered calls on RIG are twice as much as I sold them for. With gasoline up so much, I'm not surprised. They're still out of the money, but I'm looking at an August expiration date.

What if they get called away? Well, my cost basis is 3.80 and the strike is 4.00. That's only 20 cents. There is also the premium of 29 cents per share that I collected on each contract. I also collected 74 dollars total on the put options that I used to enter the position on RIG, that's 3 contracts at 16 cents per share and 2 contracts at 13 cents per share. So if assigned I'll collect 100 dollars in capital gains on top of the 219 in premiums already collected. This is a 17 percent gain on 1900 in capital in play. That's 500 shares with a cost basis of 3.80.

Here is one thing though. The counterparty to the covered calls had triple digit gains on these covered calls, its already over 200 percent. Also. On three of the put options, the counter party had triple digit gains as well. I collected 16 cents per share on 300 shares, but the other person profited 62 cents per share on 300 shares, after originally paying 16 cents per share on the put premiums. That's a 387 percent gain.

I almost want to do a few buy-write covered-calls on RIG, but I have to hold off. The idea would be to buy at 3.90 or 4.00 or whatever RIG is at right now, collect the 60 cents in premiums and write them with the 4.00 strike, and then just take assignment on the shares. That would be a 15 percent return upon assignment.

But I want to end my RIG position when these last few shares are assigned in August to write a full conclusion about my RIG trades.

...

336

There is a sever rainstorm going on right now. Really severe.

I came across this poem that I wrote a while back Titled: Etude # 62

Great. Now that you
are gainfully employed
you can pay me back
all the money that you
owe me, plus interest
 
and a service fee for
all the stamps I wasted
trying to collect my money
from your trifling ass.

I thought that this was hilarious. Like a really funny poem for me to read, and, sometimes I wonder about. Like. How everything is connected, or maybe not. Anyway. I found this poem really funny. I think that this was written while I was at the Psych Ward at Mosaic Hospital in St. Joseph, Missouri.

Here is another poem from my blog that I came across that I found amusing

Get over here when
you have the chance
and spend the night
with me and waste
all of the time I have
left in the day.
 
When sun comes, we
will look in the sky and
see the sun and stare straight
at it and we will have the
best time ever going blind.
 
I changed the title on the post to a generic Archived Content title from whatever strange name I had for it before.

I came across something on my blog that reminded me of KWD. I changed the title of the post to a generic Archived Content post. I think. That. There are parts of my past. Parts of my life. The History of me. Things that I've done. That I just need to file away in the Chestnut + Hazel archive.

So I confirmed with Fidelity that I have until June 15th to complete my IRA contributions for 2020. So I can drag this out for 5 more pay periods, or do it on May 21st. If I decide to drag it out, that's 400 a week to meet 2000 before June 15th.

So why drag it out rather than do it all at once? Well, the reduction in my tax liability is the same if I do it now, or do it later, and if I do it later, the money can just sit in my checking account in the meantime.

So, I'm thinking, should I transfer 400 a week into the IRA for the next 5 weeks? Or should I set it aside, mentally, in my checking account, and transfer it all at once?

Here is another thing. I know that I'm going to need about 10000 at the beginning of 2022 for the 2021 IRA and HSA contribution year. So, should I start setting up my positions now for early 2022?

I'm thinking of cash secured puts on index funds, out of the money by no more than 5 percent, and covered calls, out of the money by no more than 10 precent. The goal is not to get assigned on the puts, and to get assigned on the covered calls.

I'll work with QQQM, OEF, SPLG, and SPTM.

...

337

It's only 3 hours in to my shift, and I'm actually kind of tired. I got home at 7:30 AM, and woke up at 12:00 PM really refreshed, so I've been up since then.

I want to conclude my position on RIG so I can write a conclusion about the series of trades. Don't count your chickens is what they say. So I'll just wait. If it his 5.00, then I'm going to think of it as concluded and go ahead and write about it.

I want to get out of RIG so I can deploy those funds on my losing positions to eke out a gain on them.
If it hits 5.00, it means the buyer of those calls made 370 percent on his / her position.

I accidentally clocked out early, by five minutes. It isn't an attendance issue, but, that's five minutes that I don't get paid for.
Usually if work ends early, I surf the company's internal posts, open positions and newsletters.

I'm Door Dashing right now. I have my vaccine appointment later today, in Coppell, the city where I work. I had a kind of mis-adventure on my second delivery, and on 1 delivery, I was on the freeway.
I don't think I crossed any toll roads, although I almost did.

I didn't have any panic attacks or anything like that today. Although. The mis-adventure on the second delivery almost caused me a little bit of grief.

My portfolio is cratering, but it's mostly those covered calls on RIG that are shooting up. 
So. When you write covered calls, the mark on the covered calls counts against your portfolio performance.
They went from 29 bucks per contract, to 60, and now 90. And I have 5 contracts outstanding.

I go in for the vaccine event soon. I slept in my car at around 10 AM, I left my keys in the ignition, and the headlights on, and when I woke up, my battery must have died because my car wouldn't start.

I asked a few people in the parking lot for help, but no one had jumper cables, but the last guy I asked for help asked if I had an automatic or standard. I told him my car is a stick-shift, and he showed me this trick on how to start a car if your battery is dead and your car is a stick-shift. It worked. So. I drove to the vaccine event, and that's where I'm at now. Waiting in the parking lot, letting my engine idle to charge up.

I saw a reader hit on my Blog Post of a music video by Incubus, the song No Fun. I really just like the sound of the song, but the lyrics really hit home right now:

I feel like I may have been here before
All of it looks so familiar
I wanna see beyond the obvious
So show me a new constellation 
You’re no fun

You’re a song I never wanna hear again!
I feel like I’m always the last to know
The king of the dunces and the idiots
But where is the bliss in all this ignorance?
Oh just show me a new constellation

You’re a song I never wanna hear again!
Never again, never again, never again
Don’t you get it?
I only want to break your spell
You’re the snake that eats its tail 
No Fun, Incubus (2017) 

Super bored. I still have several hours before I start work. I really look forward to starting the second job and having additional income. I really do. I really want extra money.

So this post was about starting at the Case New Holland Warehouse in Cameron, Missouri. 686 is one of those numbers that I became somewhat superstitious about, along with 868. I'm still somewhat superstitious about those numbers, but, I more or less tune it out when I come across it. I think of the number as June 8th and August 6th, or August 6th and June 8th. 6/8 - 8/6. or 8/6 - 6/8. Does this make sense? My mind associates both of these dates with the same person.

...

338

Other than my arm feeling like it's been punched really hard, the vaccine hasn't given me any side effects. I wasn't expecting any.

...

339

The two most annoying messages at a gas pump are: pay inside, and clerk has receipt. I was going to get gas at 7-11 but I ended up driving down the street and getting gas at Valero. Valero is less expensive anyway, so I guess it was for the best.

The hot water was off in my apartment. So I couldn't really shower completely. Just a ball wash.

I'm eating cheese crackers. I bought groceries before getting gas, but just sodas.
I don't know what I want to eat today. Something good. Or maybe just eggs. Maybe I'll just eat noodles and eggs. I don't really know.

I work extra shifts on Friday and Saturday, so I had a block of 2 days off.
I saw a reader hit on this blog post:

here is the color of the orange
and here is the
deepest part of the ocean
which is where
the cuttlefish dare
not to go so parrots therefore
have nothing to eat

For some reason, I really like this poem. It's kind of useless. I changed the title from some random, made up word, to Archived Content. Another poem, titled Atomic Yellow, I came across, and changed the title to an Archived Content title. I also came across an old copy of a resume that I, for some reason, have posted here.

I think I'm going to change the poem to this:

here is the color of the orange
and this is the
deepest part of the ocean
and this is where
the cuttlefish dare
not go so parrots therefore
have nothing to eat

This is another poem that I seem to have a reader hit on:

The table has a leg that's shorter than
the other three legs and because of this
it wobbles, but this is where I began
my poetry writing and with great bliss

eat my dinners. I think that the wobbling
gives the table a character that's not
present in other tables where gobbling
meals takes place and the diners are not fraught

with the fear of the stand tipping over.
There are better tables and there are worse
tables for eating and writing, ever
better tables with legs for writing verse,

but it's this table, this wobbly broken
table where to me my verse is spoken.

I'm going to change this poem slightly, to this:

The table has one leg that's shorter than
the three other legs, and because of this
it wobbles, but this is where I began
my poetry writing and with great bliss

eat my dinners. I think that the wobbling
gives this table a character that's not
present in other tables, where gobbling
meals takes place and the diners are not fraught

with the fear of the top tipping over.
There are better tables and there are worse
tables for eating and writing, ever
better tables with legs for writing verse,

but it's this table, this wobbly broken
table where to me my verse is spoken. 

I think that I wrote this poem when I went to visit my mom in Las Vegas in 2017. I don't remember this table being there when I moved in with her in 2018. The other day I went down a street called Sonnet Street, and I thought that, maybe at some point I'll write another sonnet.

I did a little bit of Door Dashing today. More than I usually do, but not a whole hell of a lot of Door Dashing. I logged in, just now, to see my earnings, and I noticed that it's busy in my area. I'm tempted to log in and do deliveries. The thing is, I have work tomorrow, but, at the same time, as long as I head to sleep before Midnight, I'll have 17 hours of sleep before work.

Am at home already, but, I have to think: is there anything that I really need to take care of right now? I drove all the way home? At some point during my deliveries, I ended up north of Carrollton, and then Dashes died down, so I headed home, every 10 miles or so I'd log back in to see if the area I was in had any business. I did a couple here and there, then it would die down, then I'd continue on my way home.

It usually takes Interactive Brokers about a week to make funds available for trading. Or at least the way that is how my experience has been so far. My account with Interactive Brokers has been empty, and I haven't really done any activity with it since January. I was thinking that I would close it, but I don't really know. I think that I'll give it another shot and see what to do with it.

With my Interactive Brokers and Fidelity accounts, I think that I'm just going to take a buy and hold approach to whatever I do with these portfolios. Here is one thing about an IRA that is kind of cool, and it has to do with dividend stocks. Well, with a regular account, dividends are taxed at a rate that, I think, is similar to your income tax rate, or, at a slightly better rate, the thing is, they're taxed, and it might be that you don't really need the money, and that you're just going to reinvest the money anyway.

This can be kind of a drag because. Suppose a company used the money to do stock buybacks rather than pay dividends, well, then you should have a capital gain, rather than a dividend. I don't know if the capital gain would always be the exact same amount as the dividend would be. Meaning, I don't know if a 1 dollar capital gain would result if a stock buyback were done instead of a 1 dollar dividend. 

Anyway. If I get a 1 dollar dividend on a stock, I can only reinvest 1 dollar, minus whatever taxes I have to pay on that dollar, back into the stock. So I get a dollar, and I can only invest 88 cents back into the stock, or 78 cents or whatever. I don't think I pay a whole hell of a lot in taxes. I mean, I pay more than I think that I should, but, It's not a huge amount.

So for 2020 I paid a total of 3700 in taxes between Federal Income taxes and Missouri State taxes, and that's after receiving my refund checks. I guess that isn't a huge amount of money, but, honestly, when you start thinking like that, I think you'll start becoming more tolerant of even higher taxes.

My arm is still a little tender at the vaccine injection site. The left deltoid. I was joking with the nurse that the injection hurt so much that I would need a new arm, which I would order on Amazon during Prime Week so that I could get a substantial discount.

...

340

I don't know what to do with the remainder of my day. I kind of want to play a computer game. I know it's a total waste of time to play computer games, but I'm bored. Is there anything productive that I could do right now?

Well, I did review the 401(k) investment options again today, and I didn't really come across anything that I want to switch into, or add. I was thinking about adding the small-cap mutual funds, but, the expense ratio is kind of high. Even though the expense ration doesn't come out of my account directly, and just counts against the performance of the fund, I still don't want to get into any mutual funds with high expense ratios. There is a fund that has mid and small caps, and the expense ratio isn't really that high, in fact, it's lower than most low-cost exchange traded funds.

I did get some dividends from my holdings in my IRA. Really tiny ones.
I have some Robinhood dividends as well. This is kind of zoomed out and the resolution sucks.

...

341

So. Bored. Everything. Is. So. Boring.
So. Did I ever start playing the computer game
that I said that I was going to play?
Well. No. I did not.

I still don't know if there
is anything productive that I
can do right now.

Still thinking.
is
there
anything?

I rolled a bunch of calendar items over into next Friday. Are any of these things that I can do today? right now? Yes. but I'm not going to do them, some of them involve money,  that I really don't want to spend right now, but some of them are ongoing calendar items.

Maybe. Maybe thinking about things is a kind of work. Maybe thinking of things is a form of productivity.

I'm reworking my budget. So weekly, there's gas, and there's food. Right? what else? My rent is going up by 30 bucks, so adjusted that. I'm budgeting 20 bucks a week for food, and 20 bucks per week for gas. I want say that, even with the hike in gas prices, it's closer to 15. Let's see. What else? There are small things that I need only occasionally, toilet paper, soap, disinfectants, toothpaste. Stuff like that. How much do I really spend on Food? One other thing is that, I adjusted the length of my budget month from 4 weeks to 52 ÷ 12 weeks per month, or 4.33 weeks per month. Pretty much everything else is the same. I'm coming up with total expenses of about 1750 per month.

I still have some pants with a 36 waist size. They are probably from, probably from before Vegas.

I put in some limit orders on put option contracts that I thought had really high spreads, and some of them were executed at prices I didn't expect to get. My main goal was to reduce the mark, but getting more money for something than I anticipate is always nice.

I'm hanging out at my apartment, just resting. I ate a few eggs. I was going to do some Door Dashing, but I was expecting someone to pass by, but she never did.

and the truth is
that I'm already
tired of doing all this.
if you could just
remove your panties
that would be nice.

I just ate a few more eggs. I cook them like fried eggs, but I cook them in water, rather than oil. So I guess I boil them, but these aren't boiled eggs because I take them out of the shell.

I rolled a few covered call contracts forward. I had a realized position on the options. I sold 4 contracts at 3 dollars per contracts, and bought to close the contracts at a dollar a peice. I then opened 4 contracts at 11 dollars per contract, same strike, for the end of the year.

I also did a buy-write on something else. The limits orders I placed to close the spreads on some options are still not executed.

...

342

What am I thinking about? I'm bored and hungry. I ate eggs, but I want to eat something other than eggs. My expenses are as thin as I can get them. Well, I think. The only expenses that I have that are variable are gas and food. There isn't a huge amount I can do about gas. I don't drive a ton, and how much I spend on gas has more to do with gas prices.

I think. The best thing is not spending any more money on my hobbies for right now. That would be coin and stamp collecting, as well as filing copyrights.

I don't know. I think what compelled me to buy stamps and coins was the feeling that I needed to treat myself to something nice for hustling these last few months.

I feel like. If I get a little bit ahead, there is always something that pushes me back a little, and it's extremely frustrating.

There were a few overtime shifts available. A 12 and a 6. I took the 12 and passed on the 6. 6 is better than 0, but I want to hold out for a 12, if I take a 6, that would prevent me from taking a 12, and it's kind of hard to get two 6 shifts.

I want to reduce my taxable income, but not by reducing my overall income. Anyway, after my shift is over I think I'll log into the ERC computers and see about the machine and robot maintenance positions.

I guess I should have done that earlier in the day when I was wondering if there was anything that I needed to do. I think I was putting it off since I'm not sure if my write-ups have aged off my file, or have gone inactive.

The work day is almost over. I think I'll check out the internal positions when I get home. I want to head home. 2 hours left.

I need to get a few things at the grocery store.

Small stressors. In my personal life. I should have just slept the whole day.

So. She ended up coming over at around 2 PM or so, and stayed until 5 PM, right before I left for work. She was wearing a shirt that said Colfax on it, and, it rubbed me in all the worst ways, but I tuned it out. Anyway.

I'm back home after my shift. I'm cooking food. And I'm really tired.

It looks like the job search page is only accessible from work. There is a different job search page accessible from outside of the network, but it's not showing the position I was looking at before. I guess I'll make a point to stay in the ERC after work.

...

343

It's hot. and I'm sweating. and I'm keeping the balcony window open. and the blinds are open, and the emptiness of my apartment should be visible to anyone who walks by. Why is there a person who has nothing in his apartment? What is the point of having nothing, and is it nice. To have nothing? do you like having nothing? Is nothing better than something? You tell me!

I was hoping for another 12 to pop up, but none did. I'm kind of wishing I took the 6.

There are two ideas that are somewhat at odds with one another. One, is that you should take what you can get. The other, is to hold out until you can get what you want when the circumstances mean choosing one course of action would exclude the pursuit of another.

If I took the 6, I would not be able to take a 12 later. Maybe we will have a mandatory 12. I have no idea.

Even if another 12 doesn't pop up, I can still do DoorDash. I have a block of 3 days off.

I need to DoorDash to the amount of 310 to make up for an absence of another 12 hour overtime shift. So let's put my DoorDash goal for next week at 400.

I put a few limit orders out on shares that I have written cash secured put options on. I put the orders in based on the previous trading day's bid prices, rather than putting in market orders. These have an end of day expiration to the order. In my experience, my good til cancelled orders always have to be cancelled manually, and that's a headache.

What's the point in this? Well, since the put options are in the money, and I can't roll them for a net credit because the spreads make this maneuver impossible, then I might as well get prepared in taking a position in the underlying stock.

There are a few changes that I need to make to.my investing and trading strategy, one is to keep more cash and buying power on hand.

If my covered calls on my index funds get assigned and the shares get called away, im going to switch into call options that are deep in the money, with low strike prices. The premiums on these are high. Like 600 dollars per contract. But this would allow me to sideline 4500 in cash.

I have 3 days off next week. I have to come up with 400 extra bucks through DoorDash. I might have to change my DoorDash approach. Like chasing busy zones. I imagine that being a little bit of a headache. 

I should have just taken that 6 hour shift. I thought a 12 would pop up sooner or later, but never did. Take the hit and move on I guess. Coming up with 6 hours of overtime pay is easier than coming up with 12 hours of overtime pay.

Lunch is almost over, and it has been kind of a long day already.
Tired.

She appeared to me in a dream and said: you're a spoiled, entitled, ungrateful little brat.
And
It isn't clear to me who this woman is, or why she would say something like that.

...

344

I'm really trying to disconnect from everyone on every social media app / website that I'm on. This is nothing personal to any particular individual or anything.

It took a while, but I think I got it done. I deleted all my connections on Instagram, Twitter, and Facebook. LinkedIn too.

Years ago I started to think of social media as a kind of filing cabinet for more or less inactive friendships.

It's raining right now. It's hot and humid. I don't like it.
I ate a bunch of meat that was going bad, or maybe was bad. Boiled it for a long time.
I'm somewhat energized. I had kind of decent sleep.

...

345

It was weird deleting everyone on social media, especially Facebook. I was new to most of the other social media websites, so everyone I had on there I've seen in the last year or two, but Facebook. People I haven't seen or talked to, even by messenger, text, or email, in like 15 years.

But a lot of my social media friends and connections were people in other countries I've never even met, who would post in languages I don't understand.

I feel like I'm always at the bottom of whatever social hierarchy I'm in, so. I figure that I should cut down on the number of social circles I'm going to be at the bottom of.

I'm going to slowly move everything into the Chestnut + Hazel archive as it occurs to me to do so. Little by little here and there.

In a way I think disconnecting from everyone was somewhat beneficial. I can sort of focus on the things that I'm interested in, and post them to social media without really annoying anyone, or being perceived as flexing or boasting in some way.

I kind of want to buy some books on investing and trading, but where to start is the issue. Some books cover ground that I'm already somewhat familiar with.

It's strange not having anything to browse. News articles. And that's it.

...

346

My shares of ASRT are subject to a reverse stock split. I have 909 shares, and it's a 4 to 1 reverse split. I voted against this not to long ago, but sometimes this might need to be done to stay on an exchange.

...

347

I usually use vacation time for my half shifts on Wednesday, but I cancelled it this week since a 2nd 12 hour shift wasn't available. I should have just taken the extra 6 hour shift.

I filter my news feeds of anything useless, pointless, anything I'm not interested in, or anything that bothers me.

Okay. So here is what I did.

...

348

I received some clarification on how options are effected by reverse splits.

So the strike does remain the same after a reverse split, but it's still the strike times 100, not the strike times 100 divided by the reverse split ratio.

So the strike does remain the same, but the delivery of shares is reverse split adjusted.

It was confusing enough that I went back and forth with the Robinhoood representative once, but not more than that, so the representative's explanation was actually pretty clear.

I did do some day trading earlier today, but I really did a number on myself because my position on the stock went from 300 to 800 shares.

I have 300 shares that will be freed from their covered calls on Friday, then the options chain will be 3 consecutive months, so June, July, and August.

For these shares, I'm just going to write at the money call options.

As part of my day trading today, I did end up doing a few buy-write transactions on 200 shares, but in the money, one of which was deep in the money and with a really long time to expiration.

Is it possible to use cryptocurrency mining as a form of renewable energy storage? Like, any extra capacity that can't be stored in a battery, or sold to the grid, could be used to mine crypto, and in a sense, "stored" as money?

...

349

So my employer sent out a notice stating that anyone who is fully vaccinated will be permitted to stop wearing masks. Thank god. The masks have really started to irritate my skin and ears. My face. When I wear a mask, my face constantly itches, and it's annoying. I'm really ready to stop wearing masks.

According to the details, it's only 2 weeks after getting the full vaccination, the first and second shots in my case, that I we can stop wearing a mask. So in my case this is basically the 16th or 17th of June. Basically 100 years from today, but, better than wearing masks until the end of time.

The week is almost over. On Friday, when my options are assigned, or expire, I'm going to focus mainly on writing covered calls first, then figure out which cash secured puts I want to write.

For covered calls I'm going to go witj strikes that are either at the money, or at my cost basis, whichever is higher. On most of my holdings, the shares are close to my cost basis, so at the money calls should be close to my cost basis as well.

...

350

What did I do today. Well, I did a little bit of the Door Dashing today. I didn't make a ton of money, just 50 bucks. I think that I started around 1 PM. At some point, I parked in a neighborhood near where I dropped of an order, and a few cops were patrolling the area, and eventually came to my car and asked me to leave. They said that the area has a no loitering policy in effect, and that the area is a high crime area.

Anyway. I'm really tired, and I don't think that I'm going to meet my weekly goal of 400 bucks.

This week was my first week after switching my 401(k) contributions from 4% to 10%, and it did not cause a cash crunch. I wasn't expecting one, but, just to let you know, it did not cause a cash crunch.

I'm at home and I'm really tired. I'm going to go out and get groceries, even though I'm really tired, I really don't want to leave the house. I know that the grocery store isn't always open, and when I'm hungry in the middle of the night, there won't be anything to eat.

I bought yogurt and pork sausage. I saw ketchup and I really wanted to get some, but I didn't get any. I really wanted some, but I didn't get any.

What did I do today. Well, I did a little bit of the Door Dashing today. I didn't make a ton of money, just 50 bucks. I think that I started around 1 PM. At some point, I parked in a neighborhood near where I dropped of an order, and a few cops were patrolling the area, and eventually came to my car and asked me to leave. They said that the area has a no loitering policy in effect, and that the area is a high crime area.

Anyway. I'm really tired, and I don't think that I'm going to meet my weekly goal of 400 bucks.

This week was my first week after switching my 401(k) contributions from 4% to 10%, and it did not cause a cash crunch. I wasn't expecting one, but, just to let you know, it did not cause a cash crunch.

I'm at home and I'm really tired. I'm going to go out and get groceries, even though I'm really tired, I really don't want to leave the house. I know that the grocery store isn't always open, and when I'm hungry in the middle of the night, there won't be anything to eat.

I bought yogurt and pork sausage. I saw ketchup and I really wanted to get some, but I didn't get any. I really wanted some, but I didn't get any.

...

351

That. Was annoying. Anyway. I don't even want to go into details.

I think certain people will
keep you down in life, and
it's not always a case of 
oppression or any kind of 
plot or anything like that
I want to say it's more an 
issue of their bad habits 
rubbing off on you or their
problems becoming your 
problems if you get too 
involved in their life and 
their problems.

It's annoying. It's really fucking
annoying. I don't like cutting 
People out or abandoning people
Or ghosting people or ignoring 
People, but what I realize from
Online dating and socializing in
General is that: 

people don't think that you're 
special or unique, so don't buy 
Into the illusion that other people
Are special or unique either.

You are not special.
You are not unique.
Other people are not special.
Other people are not unique.

The yogurt seems to have worked it's way through my intestines. I have to do food delivery tomorrow. Or I guess today I mean.

So. Stay away from dates that burn your money. Unless you have easy money. I don't have easy money. So at least in my case, I have to stay away from money burners.

So how did everything go today? Well, I did end up doing quite a bit of DoorDashing. Total earnings for this week are 106.50, as of Friday night. This is much less than the 400 dollar target that I set for myself, and when I went on a dinner date with a girl from my neighborhood the other night, it basically sent me back 55 bucks. When she called, I told her that I didn't want to spend any money, that I spent the whole day DoorDashing, and only made 50 bucks, but apparently she was starving. 

Considering how much time and effort I put into the DoorDash gig, it makes me really hesitant to spend my DoorDash money. I'm logged into the DoorDash app for 10 hours, I spend 5 hours picking up and delivering, and I make 106 bucks.

I do a little Robinhood trading while I'm not delivering, or the DoorDash App is pinging for a delivery. Anyway. That DoorDash money takes a long chunk of time out of my day, even if I'm only in pickup and delivery mode for 5 of those hours.

The point I'm trying to make, and it's what I pointed out earlier, is that DoorDash money is hard to make, so it's really hard, emotionally, to spend that money.

Here is why I do DoorDash, even thought it's one hell of a grind. Let's say I invest 400 a week in my portfolio, but doing DoorDash, I can invest 500 a week in my portfolio, and since I have more to invest, I can be more aggressive as well. I think that the most aggressive I've ever been with my portfolio was during the panic selling during the Spring of 2020. I tossed every single paycheck into my ETFs, but I had a lot to fall back on, I was living rent-free with my dad and step-mom, I had two jobs, I really didn't have a social life, or a girlfriend. So it was easy for me to do that.

Here is one issue that I'm having with DoorDash. The only time they offer Peak Pay, basically 2 times the base fare, is when I'm dead tired. I'm only ever delivering at the base fare. So, I think that if I made additional changes to my approach, I could do better with DoorDash.

There were a few things that I changed to my DoorDash approach, one is adapting to the schedule issue. I was hesitant to sign up for schedules, especially since this is gig work, but I figured, whatever, I can Robinhood trade in the meantime. The other thing is driving to a different delivery zone, same thing, I figured: why not. They are usually not that far anyway. Even though Google Maps will say the route is 6 or 8 miles to the next zone, you are actually in the next zone after about a mile or two, Google Maps actually sends you to the center of the active delivery zone, but you can sign in as soon as you're at the edge of the active zone.

Anyway, just in case I didn't make this point clear, I don't like spending my DoorDash money, because it is the hardest money to make.

That. Was annoying. Anyway. I don't even want to go into details.

I think certain people will
keep you down in life, and
it's not always a case of
opression or any kind of
plot or anything like that
I want to say it's more an
issue of their bad habits
rubbing off on you or their
problems becoming your
problems if you get too
involved in their life and
their problems.

It's annoying. It's really fucking
annoying. I don't like cutting
People out or abandoning people
Or ghosting people or ignoring
People, but what I realize from
Online dating and socializing in
General is that:

people don't think that you're
special or unique, so don't buy
Into the illusion that other people
Are special or unique either.
You are not special.
You are not unique.
Other people are not special.
Other people are not unique.

The yogurt seems to have worked it's way through my intestines. I have to do food delivery tomorrow. Or I guess today I mean.

So. Stay away from dates that burn your money. Unless you have easy money. I don't have easy money. So at least in my case, I have to stay away from money burners.

So how did everything go today? Well, I did end up doing quite a bit of DoorDashing. Total earnings for this week are 106.50, as of Friday night. This is much less than the 400 dollar target that I set for myself, and when I went on a dinner date with a girl from my neighborhood the other night, it basically sent me back 55 bucks. When she called, I told her that I didn't want to spend any money, that I spent the whole day DoorDashing, and only made 50 bucks, but apparently she was starving.

Considering how much time and effort I put into the DoorDash gig, it makes me really hesitant to spend my DoorDash money. I'm logged into the DoorDash app for 10 hours, I spend 5 hours picking up and delivering, and I make 106 bucks.

I do a little Robinhood trading while I'm not delivering, or the DoorDash App is pinging for a delivery. Anyway. That DoorDash money takes a long chunk of time out of my day, even if I'm only in pickup and delivery mode for 5 of those hours.

The point I'm trying to make, and it's what I pointed out earlier, is that DoorDash money is hard to make, so it's really hard, emotionally, to spend that money.

Here is why I do DoorDash, even thought it's one hell of a grind. Let's say I invest 400 a week in my portfolio, but doing DoorDash, I can invest 500 a week in my portfolio, and since I have more to invest, I can be more aggressive as well. I think that the most aggressive I've ever been with my portfolio was during the panic selling during the Spring of 2020. I tossed every single paycheck into my ETFs, but I had a lot to fall back on, I was living rent-free with my dad and step-mom, I had two jobs, I really didn't have a social life, or a girlfriend. So it was easy for me to do that.

Here is one issue that I'm having with DoorDash. The only time they offer Peak Pay, basically 2 times the base fare, is when I'm dead tired. I'm only ever delivering at the base fare. So, I think that if I made additional changes to my approach, I could do better with DoorDash.

There were a few things that I changed to my DoorDash approach, one is adapting to the schedule issue. I was hesitant to sign up for schedules, especially since this is gig work, but I figured, whatever, I can Robinhood trade in the meantime. The other thing is driving to a different delivery zone, same thing, I figured: why not. They are usually not that far anyway. Even though Google Maps will say the route is 6 or 8 miles to the next zone, you are actually in the next zone after about a mile or two, Google Maps actually sends you to the center of the active delivery zone, but you can sign in as soon as you're at the edge of the active zone.


Anyway, just in case I didn't make this point clear, I don't like spending my DoorDash money, because it is the hardest money to make.

...

352

It's hot. There's an overcast, and the Sun is not beating down on the Earth, but it's unbelievably hot and I'm sweating like I can't believe.

I was going to wait until Friday to pay my rent, but I figured I would just pay it today. Well, I didn't pay it today, I just submitted the payment today with instructions to take the money from my account on the last day of the month.

It's hot and I'm sweating like a dog. A real dog.

I really don't have anyone to interact with. I deleted all social media connections, I stopped using dating apps, and I blocked or stopped talking and responding to the girls in my neighborhood.

I took out 3000 from my Robinhood account, 2000 for my Fidelity IRA, and 850 for rent. I have to call Fidelity and speak with a representative about the transfer for the 2020 tax year because the option is no longer available on the website, but the last representative said I qualify for the June contribution extension. I'm going to do it either Wednesday, or Friday at the latest.

I really did not want to take any money out of my Robinhood account, my thinking was that I would just use my incoming paychecks for my rent and IRA, but I changed my mind when I saw that the 2020 button was gone on Fidelity. I figured I'd get this whole thing out of the way rather than drag it out like I planned.

I guess this means I can throw my May and June money into my Robinhood account instead.

...

353

I have to decide what I want to do about my mailbox. Since my mailbox is a commercial location, it's not possible to forward my mail to my residential address, or there may be some kind of process involved, like forwarding my mail from the mailbox to the post office, then from the post office to my apartment. I've never done it before, so I don't know how it works.

My employer's face mask mandate seems to be ending sooner than expected for vaccinated employees. My nasal hair and facial hair has been driving me nuts. My face itches non-stop. Today, while showering, I scrubbed my face really deep in the hopes that it would help. I trimmed my nose hairs, but I forgot to shave.

I'm thinking about dividends. One thing is that having steady cash flow prevents the need to sell, or to take capital gains when you need cash.

Dividends increase my income, but I can offset that increase by increasing my 401(k) contributions by the amount of my dividend income.

The cap on 401(k) contributions is 19500, and honestly, if I ever had that much dividend income, I'm more or less flossing.

One of my favorite YouTube creators mentioned that he's pivoting away from dividends stocks because he has suddenly found himself in the highest income tax bracket, and those dividends have suddenly become a drag, rather than a buoy to his financial situation.

I was looking at one of my favorite dividend ETFs: PEY, and its almost at 22, i let those shares go for 16, but it's not like that was the end of the story for that money, I really just took those funds and invested in other things.

...

354

So. News articles. Just hide any stories that annoy me. Out of sight. Out of mind. No point in subjecting myself to annoyances if I don't need to.

I don't like reading about travel. I don't like reading about dating and relationships. I don't like politics. 

None of these things make me rich. None of these things improve my life.

As long as I'm part of the working class, these subjects are not relevant to me.

One day.

Change. If it doesn't make my life better, it isn't something I should worry about. If it makes my life worse, get rid of it.

Celebrity gossip is pointless. I don't know why I still get that garbage in my news feed.

Lunch break. Half way through the day.

I'm still upset about that 55 bucks I spent taking that chick out.

If I were rich. It wouldn't matter.

I'm not fucking rich. So it fucking matters.

I don't like coming across anything that reminds me of. You Know Who. but um. well. i guess i'd rather not say.

okay. so my bills are paid through the end of June. The only major thing I need to take care of is this transfer to my IRA. and then I can focus on everything else I need to get focused on.

I'm just trying to review things. My bills are paid through the end of June, so I can use all paychecks from now, until then, and throw them in my Portfolio. Or, as a precaution, all paychecks until June 18th.

...

355

Just the last few minutes before work starts. I went to the grocery store and bought some snacks. I didn't make breakfast yesterday, and I don't plan on making breakfast when I get home from work tomorrow.

I ate a bunch of butter pecan ice cream. A lot of it.

I might be getting out of my TRUE covered calls. I seriously saw these hitting 6 or 7 bucks, but on Monday, when I wrote the call options, I said fuck it, 5 per shares is above my cost basis of 4.19 per share, and I've been holding on to them since November of 2020. My first order was a buy order for 5.01.

Cars are expected to get more expensive going forward, with prices of commodities increasing and everything else up the value chain.

Anyway, I don't care if the shares hit 6 or 7 on expiration, I would still have made money. My position is 500 shares.

405 would be the gain upon assignment, cost basis vs strike at assignment. The main thing is that 500 shares at 5 bucks would free up 2500 in capital. The total gain would be higher since I've been writing covered calls for a while, but the covered call premiums were consistently garbage, like 5 cent per shares from some way out of the money strike price.

Covered calls on TRUE, BBVA, MUFG, and RIG should be getting assigned over the next few months.

Sometimes I wonder what would have happened if i simply went with a more realistic strike, a better premium, and freed up that capital sooner, rather than wait almost 8 months. 8 months for 405 bucks is a long time.

My position on TRUE was 400 shares for the longest time. I was assigned 200 shares, and then I doubled down to 400. Last month I upped my stake to 500 shares. Those last 100 shares I bought and wrote a covered call with, at the money. They didn't get called away.

I didn't make breakfast this morning. I also didn't make breakfast before heading to work. I thought about getting Jack in the Box tacos, but I didn't get them. I'm just eating cheese crackers and drinking soda.

I made the 2000 dollar contribution to my IRA this morning.

I bought Amazon and DoorDash, a few companies that manufacture cars, and ETFs, the half shares of Amazon ate up most of that 2000.

I was thinking about ways to offset the taxability of dividend income, and one thing that came to mind was margin interest expense. This might be something that is really difficult to manage.

I'm thinking about something. I want to do the dividend and margin interest experiment with my IBKR portfolio.

It's going to be a while before my IBKR portfolio has a balance what would qualify for margin lending. I'm really just dripping money in 20 dollars at a time. Since it takes forever for funds to become available with IBKR, there isn't really an impetus to shove more money in faster.

I almost forgot, but I get paid in a few days. June bills are paid. The IRA thing is done. I can Robinhood all incoming funds through the 18th of June.

...

356

okay. there were a few ideas that i had for my IBKR portfolio. and i'm going to do this. focus on dividend ETFs with a low expense ratio, and a dividend yield higher than the margin interest rate that IBKR charges. I'm not going to be using margin with IBKR for a while, but i'm looking to have a regular stream of dividends coming in before i start using margin, so that when i do start using margin with IBKR I'll have dividends coming in to pay for margin use, and there will be some money left over after margin interest expenses.

I'm only dripping in a small amount of money into my IBKR portfolio per week, around 20 bucks. so it's going to be a while before i have the 2000 dollars needed to start using margin with IBKR. if is 20 bucks a week, it will be 100 weeks before i have 2000 dollars in my IBKR account.

...

357

It's raining. The weather is strange. It goes from really dry and hot, to a cool and heavy rain.

I have today off from the factory, so I think I'll DoorDash later. I DoorDashed after work on Thursday, not right after my shift, but around noon. The fares seemed higher than usual, so I stayed in the app as long as I could, but of course, I eventually got tired, and went home.

One delivery was actually a shopping trip at Albertsons.

I don't actually do a lot of grocery shopping in my personal life. I usually go to the grocery store after work, nearly every work day, but I don't really buy a huge variety of products.

So I did Door Dashing yesterday, and today, and I think I made as much this week, as I did last week. I started so late today, I was so incredibly tired.

I think I can pay off all my credit cards. I pay off my Chase Freedom Card every month, but I have 2 Capital One cards that I've just been paying the monthly minimums on. I don't know why exactly I had been doing that. I think that I wanted to keep them active without constantly making a new charge on them every month. The balances on them are really tiny.

I don't know, of all the things that I can waste money on, why spend more money on credit card interest than I need to?

I don't know why I was so tired today. I think I was up from around midnight to 4:00 AM, and then went back to sleep, then I woke up again around 4:00 PM, bought groceries, and then got on Door Dash. I really don't know why I was so tired. I'll never forget my time in Missouri where, on most days, I would run on about 5 hours of sleep per day. I would work 10 hours at Case New Holland, then another 8 at the Quality Inn. I really don't know how I did all that for so long.

...

358

I came across a post from my Letters from Chestnut Street series. In the post, I wrote about my personal loan with OneMain Financial. Jesus. I had it from California, to Nevada, to Missouri. I don't remember when I paid it off. It's something that I would have to look up. I can't believe that I had it so long. 

I guess I can look it up on Credit Karma. I closed it on August 2019 it was opened in August of 2017. That was such a long time. There are things that I want to look up, and remember.

I closed my Stockpile account earlier this year, and I was planning to close my IBKR portfolio as well, but I figured I might as well give it a second shot. I really think that I can do something interesting with it. These next two paychecks, and maybe even these next three paychecks, are all for my investing pleasure. Hehehe.

Anyway, I want to say that, just remembering 2019. I must have closed my OneMain Financial personal loan in August of 2019. I had an account balance in my Stockpile account somewhere between 12000, and 13000, then moved most of it to Robinhood.

I really did okay in Missouri, and I did okay in Nevada, and I'm doing okay in Texas. I keep thinking, sometimes, that I'm mad about everything, and sometimes I feel like I'm not happy with where I'm at in life, but I really am doing okay.

I got as many addresses of mine redirected from my Private Mail Box on Lamar BLVD to my Apartment on Sanford ST. I don't know what else to update, I managed to update most of my profiles with my Apartment address, most of the important stuff.

There is a lot of stuff, here, on my blog, that horrifies me, some of the old things that I wrote, some of the old challenges that I faced, some of my old problems and feelings. Sometimes I just want to erase these things, but these are also things that I want to remember, so I just archive them.

I came across a post from my Letters from Chestnut Street series. In the post, I wrote about my personal loan with OneMain Financial. Jesus. I had it from California, to Nevada, to Missouri. I don't remember when I paid it off. It's something that I would have to look up. I can't believe that I had it so long. 

I guess I can look it up on Credit Karma. I closed it on August 2019 it was opened in August of 2017. That was such a long time. There are things that I want to look up, and remember.

I closed my Stockpile account earlier this year, and I was planning to close my IBKR portfolio as well, but I figured I might as well give it a second shot. I really think that I can do something interesting with it. These next two paychecks, and maybe even these next three paychecks, are all for my investing pleasure. Hehehe.

Anyway, I want to say that, just remembering 2019. I must have closed my OneMain Financial personal loan in August of 2019. I had an account balance in my Stockpile account somewhere between 12000, and 13000, then moved most of it to Robinhood.

I really did okay in Missouri, and I did okay in Nevada, and I'm doing okay in Texas. I keep thinking, sometimes, that I'm mad about everything, and sometimes I feel like I'm not happy with where I'm at in life, but I really am doing okay.

I got as many addresses of mine redirected from my Private Mail Box on Lamar BLVD to my Apartment on Sanford ST. I don't know what else to update, I managed to update most of my profiles with my Apartment address, most of the important stuff.

There is a lot of stuff, here, on my blog, that horrifies me, some of the old things that I wrote, some of the old challenges that I faced, some of my old problems and feelings. Sometimes I just want to erase these things, but these are also things that I want to remember, so I just archive them.

...

359

I have my vaccine appointment on Wednesday. I have work that night as well. Usually I take Wednesdays off, but overtime scheduling has been wonky, so I've just been working Wednesdays and extending the shift.

There is something on my mind. The issue is that a set of my covered calls has a strike below the strike that I was assigned at, but only by 50 cents on 3 contracts, so I could potentially be assigned on a covered call at 150 dollars less than I was assigned on the cash secured put. 

I don't want to buy any more shares of this stock than I have to. I'm already in pretty big. I have 2400 in shares at my cost basis, and another 3200 in cash collateral.

I don't want to buy another 300 shares and write calls with the higher strike. But I don't want to get assigned on the covered calls below the strike I was assigned at. All my covered calls are a strike lower than the strike I was assigned at, or at even lower strikes.

If the price runs up, it increases the likelihood of getting assigned on my call below the strike I was assigned at for the puts I wrote, and if it runs up too quickly, I'm going to get nervous about using a buy-write.

But I also don't remember where im at. I own 1000 shares. I was assigned at 3 on 300 shares, and I think I doubled down and wrote a bunch at 2.5, so I might be okay.
So I think I have 300 shares with a 2.5 strike that I was assigned at 3 per share, but also 300 more with a 2.5 strike that I bought for around 2 per share.

...

360

I went to the grocery store this morning and bought pork sausage, rice, and other stuff to make breakfast.

I deleted some boob lady photographs from some of my old posts. I don't know why I collected boob lady photographs.

I made breakfast. Rice, potatoes, and pork sausage. I thought about getting soy sauce this morning. Two things have been on my mind: Ketchup, and Soy Sauce.

I think that it has been about a year since I left Missouri. I did renew my lease a few months ago, and I've been on an annual lease, so I guess I should have thought about this a few months back.

I'm having trouble falling asleep. I had yogurt, and my stomach / intestines are making noises: there is a dinosaur in my belly. I also had a huge breakfast. I've just been reading mostly.

...

361

I don't think I want to eat breakfast this morning.
I have my vaccine appointment Wednesday. I also 
work that day. How to manage my naps?

...

362

There is a Dollar Tree store near my apartment. I went there today, I've been meaning to go there for a while, and when I went there, the store seemed to be clearing out. The store is closing down and moving to a new location.

...

363

It's hot and I'm sweating a lot. I only did one DoorDash delivery this week. I logged in to DoorDash at 4:00 AM on Friday, and only had 1 delivery and I didn't get pinged for another one for a while, so I went home.

I didn't have any kind of reaction to the second dose of the vaccine, but my appointment was in the middle of the day, so I got the vaccine, and then just hung out in Coppell after my appointment, so I only got 4 hours of sleep that day, then I went into work.

I think I slept the entire day on Thursday.

I ended up signing back in to DoorDash and delivering food from Midnight to around 4 AM on Saturday. It wasn't too bad, but I was tired, I got tired. Well, fatigued maybe. Maybe not tired. There were the usual pickups at fast food places that take nearly forever.

The fast food places, at night, only have the drive-thru open. I wrote about this before, and they are always understaffed. I'm sure they know that they really have the power to make you wait forever: midnight munchies have no alternatives.

I came across a few posts where I had posted pictures of those Instagram boob ladies. I removed the photographs.
I also came across a few posts where I posted some sonnets I wrote a while back

What else?

I'm trying to forget things. 
There are things that I just
don't want to remember. Things
that I just want to forget.
Things that I just don't want
to be reminded of.

There are things that I just
don't want to think about
ever again, that I don't ever
want to be reminded of. things
that I just have to forget. things
that I just want to erase from
my memory, things that I just
want to shut out of my thoughts.
that i don't want to be reminded 
of.

sometimes it's just time to forget.

I don't know why I was so tired that I wasn't able to DoorDash as much as I usually do. I'm about 40 bucks lower than my earnings last week. I was just so tired.

I think that it's this: Wednesday I had my vaccine appointment at 1:00 PM, I got off work that day at 6:30 AM, went home, slept for  5 hours, or less, then went to my vaccine appointment, then hung out in Coppell until work started. I went into work from 6:30 PM to 5:30 AM, and on Thursday I was just dead tired. I probably could have DoorDashed Thursday night, going into Friday morning, but I've never done that sort of thing, not since I was delivering food with Uber Eats, and come to think of it, I would usually stop delivering around 11:00 PM when delivering with Uber Eats. I think that last night was the first time I've ever delivered food at night, and overnight. I would usually stop at 11:00 PM with Uber Eats because at around 11:00 PM, you'll get sent to restaurants that are closed at 11:00 PM, or midnight, and when you get there, they are closed earlier than their posted hours.

So, yeah, tonight is the first night that I've ever delivered food overnight. The most difficult aspect about this is that the fast food places do force you to go to the drive-thru lane, and, even though I dislike this aspect, i think that I can understand why fast food places do this, first, due to the speed that orders are filled at fast food places at midnight, it's obvious that they are working with a skeleton crew, having the dining room open during these hours would either require another staff member to clean and maintain the dining area, and all the other places that customers go, and honestly, if a restaurant wanted to add an additional staff member, they could probably better utilize that staff member to speed up orders in the drive-thru area.

...

364

I'm really lost. Well, by lost I just mean that I don't have any grand plans for the future. Everything is slow, week by week, and incremental.

What are my major plans? I don't have any. I have on my calendar 2 short term items that need to be delt with before the end of the month, my mail box, and my car registration. One cool thing is that my statement balance on one of my credit cards is 300 less than it was during my previous statement cycle.  

I guess cutting the ladies out of my life has made me just a little but richer. Hehe. I pay off my statement balance on my main credit card every month to avoid paying interest, but at any given moment in time, the card has a balance. I also stopped buying stamps and coins.

I need to buy sodas, snacks, and maybe something for breakfast. I'm not sure if I'm all that hungry.

Whenever I get an email from UTA about applying it kind of makes me wonder if I'm really taking the right path with my life.

Honestly, I'm going to rule out any possibility of getting a job at some finance company that pays a fabulous salary if I were to get an advanced degree.

I really think I'm going to have to start my own company, a CEF, an ETF, a REIT, a SPAC, or holding company, or mutual fund, or something.

I didn't fall asleep until around noon, but when I did fall asleep, it was a deep fucking sleep.

...

365

There is this fabulous storm going on right now. Really intense. It reminds me of the first few months when I moved from Las Vegas, to Missouri. The weather takes some getting used to if you're from a place with milder weather.

Well, Las Vegas was hot all the time, intensely hot, and all the time. I mean the weather in San Jose is mild. 

I was looking at me Facebook memories. It's been almost 1 year since I left Case New Holland. Maybe a year and a day.

I don't want to remember certain things. Or, I don't want to be reminded of certain things. I don't want to lose my memory. I don't want to lose my memories. I just don't want to be reminded of certain things.

I don't mean to go in circles with my thoughts, but, that's just the way my thinking goes some times.

I tune out a lot of things. I filter my news feed. I filter the things I see. Censorship on an individual level.

I removed spotify and youtube music. I'm going to take bumble and ok cupid off my phone as well.

...

366

Well.
I've been day trading and swing trading for the past few days.
I made 5 dollars.

That might not sound like much, but my positions are usually no more that 25 dollars.
I usually do 10 shares at a time with shares that are in the 2 dollar range.

I put in a limit order slightly below the bid, and as soon as I get a fill, I put in a limit sell for 5 cent more than my fill price.
This can be risky, the main issue is that, if you get a fill on a limit order that is below the bid, it means that the stock price is falling. 

Say the bid is 2.00 and you set a limit at 1.99, well, when you get a fill on your limit order, it means that the bid must have dropped from 2.00 to 1.99. 

One thing that happened was that, I think I had an order filled at a limit below the bid, then I put in my limit sell, and another limit buy below the new, lower bid, and that one got filled too, in fact, I think that on this particular stock, the price retreated 4 times, and I had 4 orders of 10 shares each filled. I was getting nervous, at market close on Monday, I had 40 shares, that night I considered buying another 60, to make it an even 100, and then using the 100 shares to write a covered call.

So I had 2 orders out, 1 limit sell for 40 shares, I put them all out at the highest price that my 5 cent rule would allow, and I also had a limit buy for 60 shares 5 cents below the bid when the market closed on Monday.

Anyway, on Tuesday, my limit sell on the 40 shares was filled, so I canceled the limit buy for 60 and moved on to something else.

So, that's how I made 2 dollars. Hehe.

I've been reducing my sleep down to 5 hours, going to sleep at noon, rather than 8 or 9 AM, and I feel more energized.

Maybe the lack of energy has been due to over sleeping rather than under sleeping

...

367

It's hot. I have my ceiling fan on, and it's not any cooler. Not much cooler.
My paycheck was kind of big this week. I would like to thank all the people out there who read books!

Mission Arlington came through my neighborhood and gave away boxes of packaged snacks that I thought were somewhat fancy. The last time they came to my neighborhood, they gave away cheerios and bread, and it took me a while to finish it.

Today they came again and were giving away a variety of different things, I took some soap and razor blades. This group came from a church in Joplin, Missouri.

I feel bad when I'm reminded of Missouri or Las Vegas. I feel bad for having left. Like, I abandoned the people who cared about me, and helped me while I was trying to get back on my feet after leaving Las Vegas.

...

368

I've been really tired lately. It's hot. It's hard to sleep when you're melting. It's 11 PM and it's hot. I don't like leaving my balcony window open, but it's the only window I have. My skin feels so oily all the time.

...

369

I want to go out to eat something, like to a buffet, I'm kind of hungry. What's available? I've been so amazing at being a tightwad! So maybe I shouldn't go out to eat! That Way! I can continue being an amazing tightwad!

Really, I want to eat at a buffet, but I don't want to travel far. Everything is 11 AM, except for Golden Corral, but I don't know how far that is. Well, 4.4 miles away.

Well, Maybe I'm not really that hungry. Maybe I should just nap.

I went to the buffet at 11 AM. I ate fish, sushi, and octopus. It's hard to get good sleep when you're melting, and all day I'm melting in the Texas heat.

I reinstalled OKCupid and Bumble on my phone, but I'm still skeptical of anything coming of them.

...

370

I don't have any food cooking right now, I didn't bother to make breakfast. I made breakfast on Saturday morning, but not since then.

Anyway, I'm up this morning because I'm researching some stuff related to American Depository Receipts, or ADRs on the SEC website.

I was hit with a 4 cent fee for holding 2 shares of NMR in my Fidelity IRA!

AND I'M FURIOUS!

Just kidding.

Anyway, I have a lot of ADRs in my Robinhood account, like thousands of shares, 2 cents per share for a custody fee isn't a huge deal, but, Thousands of fucking shares? Jeeze.

Anyway, it seems that this charge is related to the distributions of dividends.

I found it hard to find information about these fees anywhere, it's almost like you really have to be a Weiner about things to see who is

TAKING YOUR 4 CENTS!!!

Anyway:

the place to find ADR fees can be found with the SEC filing 20-F.

Pain in the neck.

government websites aren't user friendly worth shit, but, I guess they don't really have to be.'

Well. I'm serious about my ADR holdings on Robinhood. Thousands.

I've probably been using the same razor blade since 2019. Razor burn. I shaved with cold water the other day, and my head itches.

At the very least, I've been using the same blade for over a year, lets see. 

It's either the same blade from January 2019 or June 2020.

A new razor comes with 2 blades, and a new pack of blades comes with 4 blades per pack.

...

371

Let. Me. Think. I'm a little bit tired. It's hot again, and I'm sure it will just get hotter as we get deeper into summer.

I bought food at the grocery store and made breakfast. 

Tabasco sauce is amazing.

I'm halfway through the bottle I bought yesterday.

When I got home, it was hot, and I was sweating. I opened the balcony window, and I was still sweating, then I realized that my ceiling fan wasn't turned on, so I turned it on, and now I'm not sweating.

I don't use a ton of electricity, unless the weather is extreme. My two highest electricity bills were for March, which covered usage during the blizzard, and August of last year, which was just a hot month.

...

372

I'm tired. Really tired. After getting off work at 5:30 AM, I went home, and I don't think that I've slept since then, it's 1:47 PM. I have today off, and tomorrow off, and don't go back to work until Saturday Afternoon, So I don't really need to get any rest.

I'm having this issue with my Fidelity HSA, apparently there is a 12 dollar quarterly administration fee that I wasn't aware of. It's not in the list of fees on the website, it's in the footnotes pertaining to the list of fees for HSAs. Stupid. A fee waiver is possible, but it requires a minimum account balance, and here is the thing, the minimum account balance to qualify for the fee waiver isn't noted anywhere on the website.

I asked for a detailed account agreement for my specific account, but they lump every conceivable fee for every conceivable account into a single, agglomerated document, and because of this, it isn't clear which fees go with which account types, and when, and under what circumstances.

I'm a little bit pissed off with Fidelity over this 12 dollar fee, and I honestly feel like filing a formal complaint with the appropriate regulatory body, but I'm going to try to calm down. This works out to about 4 dollars per month, which is less than I pay for Robinhood.

...

373

So my position in TrueCar is closed out, and I have no other contracts outstanding, and I'm not holding any shares. So I want to see what my total gain / loss was with this position.

So I made about 826 dollars on this position in True Car (TRUE). I was trading this stock forever. I think I first made a trade with this stock at the beginning of November, buying 1 share, and selling 2 put contracts.

I was assigned on those 2 put contracts at 4 dollars per share, and taking possession of 200 shares for 800 dollars.

So for the put options that I've been assigned on, I've been able to exit, with a profit, on TRUE, and LYG.

BBVA, MUX, and RIG I've taken put-option assignment on, and I should be able to exit with a profit once I'm assigned on the covered-calls that I wrote after being assigned on the cash-secured puts that I wrote on them. I have a covered call on MUFG that looks like it will be assigned at some point in August, but that was a buy-write transaction, I was not assigned on a put option with MUFG.

My covered calls on BBVA should be assigned late July, and MUX, RIG, MUFG should be assigned late August, with MUX I have 2 covered calls that are deep in the money, and 1 covered call that is about 50 cents out of the money.

After looking at my TRUE transactions, one thing I realized is that from a cash-flow stand point, the money that you are dripping into the stock, tends to be larger than the amount that drips out of the stock, on average. I might get 20 bucks here or there writing covered calls and cash secured puts, but I'm buying blocks of shares that are much more than 20 bucks in order to do so. 800 bucks isn't too bad, but that was a challenging position to hold, and to get out of.

The other positions are GTE, DGLY, ASRT, NAK, TGB, ITP, and WTRH. I might be working with many of these positions into next year.

I'm going though my emails and clearing much of it out.

I have this idea. I'm thinking about pushing many of my positions out until the beginning of next year. Even though that's a long time to wait, I think that this will allow me more time to really think about. I lost my train of thought. I'll come back to this idea.

Okay, so I switched most of my positions from next month, to next year, and by most of my positions, I mean most of the positions for which I'm writing covered calls for.

So instead of writing calls for next month, I'm writing calls for next year.

...

374

I keep coming across articles mentioning or anticipating a major stock market crash.

The result is that I'm hesitating to deploy the money that freed up this weekend due to my options expiring and being assigned.

I really want to write some put options, but I've been burned before. Badly. I'm thinking about some of my positions that have crashed, and have languished for quite some time.

Here is what I'm thinking. I have to focus on these positions that I'm in the red with, and figure out how to trade my way out of them. Nightmare. Really.

I want to roll some of my put options forward, but it isn't exactly clear to my what the tax consequences of this are.

I'm tired, but I've also had quite a bit of trouble sleeping. I went to church today, or bible study I guess.

I don't want to think about how many showers I've taken today. I think about 5 or so. It's just s hot. Showering cools me down, and it gets me clean.

No FOMO trades and no YOLO trades, no matter how tempting.

And no revenge trading.

I'm in the breakroom drinking water. With the temperature outside being so high, I can't comfortably sit in my car, and drink warm soda.

I need to stop smoking, I'm down to my last bag of pipe tobacco, so this is my chance.

I'm tired. When I get home, I'm going straight to sleep. I'm going to take the most amazing shower ever, then I'm going to go to sleep.

I have the covered calls that I want to write in queue, as for puts? Fuck it, they can wait. I am tired.

I've gained weight, I haven't weighed myself, but some of my slimmer pants are kind of snug.

...

375

I wasn't really busy this week. Not busy any more than I've been in previous week, but I have been kind of tired. I think that it's mainly just the heat.

Yesterday one of my tires had low tire pressure, so I stopped at a QuikTrip to inflate my tire, but the adapter was broken, then I went to another QuikTrip, and it's adapter was also broken, it was the QuikTrip near my apartment that finally had a working adapter.

This happened to me before, when I was working in Haslet, the Adapter for the tire inflator at 7-11 did not work, so I drove to find another one at a different gas station.

Anyway, as a result of the tire issues, I couldn't really do much in the way of food deliveries with DoorDash.

I'm smoking a cigarette. It's been a while since I've smoked one. I actually made a point not to bring my pipe tobacco with me today, but my cravings got the better of me.

I think that if I were to quit smoking I would have better energy levels.

...

376

I've written about this before: 
I feel like I don't have any long term plans.
My main challenge is that I need more time.

I'm not going to reduce the amount of overtime
I work each week, the reason is that even if
I were to free up those hours be not working
overtime, it actually reduces the amount of
free time I have at some point in the future.

How do I explain this? 

So an overtime hour
is paid at 1.5 times a normal hour

I make more money for the same amount of time

but another way of thinking about this is that 

I make the same amount of money
in less time.

So, in my mind, working overtime 
saves time, 
at least in the long run. I mean 
at some point I'll
have free time, and the hours I 
banked as overtime

will sustain me for more time 
than the same number of
hours banked as normal time.

Another issue is extreme tiredness.
Like real bad exhaustion like I can't
even believe.

I'm I sleeping too much? Probably.

What should I do? I'm tired.

What can I cut out of my day?

If I manage to free up time in my 
Time Budget, it's important that I
don't blow the time savings playing
on the computer, or, sleeping longer.

I'm going to pin my lack of time mainly on my lack of energy. I shouldn't sleep for hours on end on my days off.  

What would I do with more time? Work on other things I guess.

...

377

There really isn't anything interesting to browse on my phone during my breaks and lunches. I don't have any social media connections anymore. I'm cynical about online dating. Google News and Facebook News only send me to articles with paywalls.


I'd subscribe to Bloomberg if it wasn't so expensive.

Any investment periodical would work.

Well, maybe not any, I have to see which one works best. I could probably subscribe to one.

I'm halfway through my shift at work. I wan to spend some time thinking and planning.

...

378

It's hot! It rained this morning and part of the day, so it was cooler earlier, but right now, I'm melting. I have a full shift today, and a half shift tomorrow.

I've reverted back to a previous approach to how I manage my cash, but basically, for a while I was putting all my money into my investment accounts each pay period, and taking out just what I needed for my bills once a month, like, I was issuing all payments for all accounts at once, on the third Friday of each month, or the Monday after the third Friday of each month, this approach really reduced the amount of time I spent focusing on my budget.

I ended my last Robinhood statement cycle with about 28900 in the account, and I'm close to ending this month in the 32000 range.

I'm going to make one final deposit for June tomorrow.

I took a look at some of the Mutual Funds on Fidelity, options for my IRA money, and FSKAX, FZROX and FXAIX are the funds that I'm interested in, FXAIX is just a S&P 500 index fund, and the other two are total market funds. They all have a similar expense ratio about half of what low expense ratio ETFs charge.

I don't plan on making and purchases any time soon, and FXAIX is the default for any incoming contributions to my Fidelity HSA, but I put it on my calendar to review these things next year when it comes time to top off my IRA and HSA.

There is one thing that I did today. Well, I did Door Dash and I honestly didn't make very much money, so, I remember kind of whining on my blog about not having enough spare time, and needing to maximize the amount of money for the time I spend making money, so I figured I'd log out for the time being. Sometimes the earnings are good, sometimes they're not, so I'll come back around to it later.

One time I did see a woman Door Dashing with 2 phones running at the same time, and maybe that is how this hustle really goes.

Anyway, I was discouraged with my earnings, I logged out, and figured I should probably do what Graham Stephan did in some of his earlier YouTube videos and churn accounts for the opening bonuses. My plan is to close my Chase Checking account, and collect the bonus for this Capital One checking account, but maybe I don't need to do that. I really have to think about it, but too many checking accounts can be a nightmare to manage, and I still have my Chase credit card, so I'm keeping at least a little bit of stuff going on at Chase.

The temperature outside has dropped. It rained earlier. It's cool, but my apartment is somewhat hotter even though my balcony window has been open nearly all day.

I'm going back in forth in my mind about what to do about my Chase account, and I think that I'm going to go ahead and disconnect my account from my payroll over the next month or so, and then close the account when I get a chance.

The other thing is that, it might make sense to keep a higher cash balance.

You know, honestly, I'm going to go ahead and close my Chase Checking account. I've had it for 2 years, and I'd hate to see it go, but I just don't need more than 2 accounts, I don't need more than 1 checking account. 

There are a few things that make me think that I don't exactly need to close my Chase checking account. 1 is that it isn't hard to keep a 1500 cash balance in my checking account, I've been wanting to keep a higher amount of money in cash anyway,  I prefer keeping my cash in Robinhood anyway, partly because it adds to my total Robinhood balance, and that gives me a sense of satisfaction, but also, I use it as a kind of Cash staging area. 

I can transfer money to Citibank or Chase via Robinhood Cash Management, or between Citibank, Chase, and Capital One, via Robinhood Cash Management, but.

and. It's not really like I'm closing my checking account with chase, even if I do close my checking account with Chase, because the Cash Management aspect of Robinhood is handled by Chase. So, maybe, in reality, I'm just reducing redundancy. 

...

379

It's super hot. Today is an overtime day for me, but I get off at 5:30 AM. Either there weren't any overtime sign ups for next week, or I missed them. There is usually something, even if it is a holiday week.

So what are my plans for this week if there is no overtime? I don't know. This week, on Thursday and most of Friday, I slept. I think I got off work at midnight, Thursday morning. I Door Dashed for a short amount of time, and I think I did 3 deliveries.

I ended my Chase credit card statement cycle with a statement balance that was 186 dollars lower this month compared to last month, but I was charged interest.

My current goal is to zero out all of my credit card balances. There was no rush to do so before, but at this point, I have plenty of money stashed away, and there is no reason to delay.

...

380

I'm working on my budget for the coming month. But first, last month my total transfers into Robinhood amounted to about 2300. Which is nice.

I was a little worried because I only saw a 480 difference between my June 1st data point and my June 30th data point on my Robinhood account, but I remember Robinhood increases or decreases the heights of the data points based on withdrawals and deposits.

This can make things more confusing, but it can also make things more clear as well because portfolio trend lines will be drawn based more on investment returns rather than cash flow in and cash flow out.

Today is July 4th. It's Sunday, and I didn't go to church today. Tired. Really tired. Very Tired. I was also. I am also. Kind of Grouchy.

Let's see. There is a kind of bonus at work going on, there is a temporary pay bump for the month with overtime hours worked being paid out at 2x, rather than 1.5x, but there haven't been any posts for overtime this week, I thought that I may have missed the sign up window, but several other people mentioned that they didn't get pinged for it either.

Let's see? I did schedule small amounts of vacation time throughout the month, to maximize my ability to sign up for overtime, but if nothing comes up I have to think about whether or not to cancel the vacation time usage, in order to save it for later, or to just take the vacation time so I can burn it off.

Vacation time is a kind of use it or lose it kind of a thing, I was kind of lucky that my employer allowed vacation to be rolled over from 2020 to 2021, because I hadn't taken any in 2020, even though I had some vacation time accumulated.

With vacation time, I have to balance two things, I have to balance using it in the best way possible, against using it so I don't lose it.

My employer doesn't really expire vacation time, it just stops accumulating after your vacation balance reaches a certain threshold.

Let's describe an idea, and let's call this idea Vacation Time Not Accumulated, and what this idea is, is that you should accumulate vacation time, because you put in the Hours Worked, but you can't accumulate the vacation time because you've reached your Accumulated Vacation Time Maximum.

Let's describe another idea called Vacation Time Lost Due to Expiration, and what this describes is Vacation Time Banked, that is to say, earned and accumulated in your Vacation Time Balance, but lost due to having not been used in the designated time frame for it to be used.

These two ideas are different, in the first instance, vacation time is lost due to not being banked, and in the second instance, the vacation time is banked, but lost due to expiration. So, Vacation Time Lost Due to Expiration is worse than Vacation Time Not Accumulated, but from a balance sheet perspective, they are the same.

...

381

My stomach feels like garbage. I don't know what I ate. Nothing strange. Just crackers and chips, but maybe that's what's making my stomach feel like garbage.

We work a half shift tonight, the factory was closed for part of Independence Day. I'm laying down in my car, writing this post, and waiting for work to start.

My mind is still lingering on the possibility of canceling my vacation request for this week, or maybe not, maybe I should go somewhere if there aren't any overtime opportunities.

I drive passed the airport nearly every day I drive to work. I have a passport. Why not?

I'm trying to remember. I think maybe in January I finally started using my paid time off and vacation hours at Amazon, and I think traveling outside the United States was on my mind.

I remember putting the whole idea on the backburner because I signed up for overtime instead, but the exact sequence of events isn't exactly clear in my memory. 

I either had 1 week where I had 4 days off, and could have gone somewhere, and didn't, and thought that I'd just do it the following week, or, like, that exact week I signed up for overtime, like, I was rolling up on my 4 day block of days off, Wed to Sun, and then I got pinged for overtime on Monday or Tuesday, and said, fuck it, I'll work instead.

I'm pretty sure that I slept all day today. I didn't go to church, even though it's only an hour, and I don't stay for the main service. I've been lamenting not having enough free time, but really, when I do have free time, I use it to sleep.

Why am I so tired? It wasn't super hot today. 1 thing I can point to is that I don't really drink anything heavily caffinated, I don't drink energy drinks or coffee. Not any more anyway. I used to, back in Missouri when I worked 2 jobs, and back in Las Vegas when I worked as a driver through the night.

It's only a half shift today, today is easy.

...

382

I'm still not exactly sure what's causing me to be so tired all the time.
this is here
I'm thinking. I wonder if it's due to smoking. I wonder.
this is where
It's so hot. I'm melting.
this is there

...

383

I'm hungry. I went to the buffet the other day and spent about 20 bucks on lunch, which I didn't think was out of the ordinary or unusual, and I didn't feel like I spend too much money, and I still don't think that I spent too much money, but, when I bought breakfast this morning for 2 dollars, I thought that maybe I spent an excessive amount of money on lunch, but then, these numbers aren't perfect. I spent closer to 17 dollars on lunch, and about 2.20 on breakfast. I rounded to 20 and rounded to 2 to make the comparisons in my mind easier.

I napped. I cancelled my Wednesday vacation time request. I rolled some of my put options that were in the money.

They were deep in the money, and they were deep in the money when I wrote them. I was expecting the stock price on some of these to move past the strikes of the puts I wrote, but they didn't, at least, not when I expected them to.

I have to think about how to plan my expenses this month. Well, Actually. I know what my expenses are this month. I guess what I mean is. I have to think about how to approach my expenses this month. I was thinking about just clearing out the balances of my credit cards this month, and just keeping a zero balance all the time, but I might have to hold off on doing this.

I'm still irritated about paying interest on my Chase credit card this month. Cheapskate. Cheap mother fucking skate.

I posted an anti-cryptocurrency tweet on Twitter the other day, but deleted it shortly after I posted it. Most people are very optimistic and enthusiastic about cryptocurrencies, and I really don't want to be a killjoy. Not that anyone really pays attention to my Twitter posts anyway.

My issue is that cryptocurrencies seem to be motiving and facilitating and incentivizing these terrorist attacks, and I think that the cryptocurrency establishment should do what it can to oppose the use of cryptocurrency for terrorist attacks.

One thing is that. When terrorists are paid in paper currency, the bills are marked, and the serial numbers are noted: is the same thing possible with cryptocurrencies?

Good God. It's hot.

...

384

Home. Time to sleep.

Today is the 8th of July. Early in the morning. There is this cool thing in ADP that I just found, but basically, you can see all the paystubs from your previous employers and current employer, all in a single file, almost, and just click left and right and see what you've made. I'm making pretty good money.

There are some worries that I have about the availability of overtime going forward. I didn't see any last week, I kept hoping that something would pop up, but nothing did. Maybe something will pop up, but maybe this is an okay thing. I could think of this as a kind of mini-vacation that I haven't had in months. I was looking at my paystubs, and I did see 2 in the last year with pay amounts that suggested that there was no overtime for those 2 weeks.

So, let's say that there is no overtime this week, and there already seems to be no overtime this week. What do I do? I could try doing more food delivery stuff than I usually do, but, I've been wanting a little bit of free time, so maybe this is what I've been looking for.

What do I do? What have I been wanting to do?

...

385

I'm tired. There were some sign ups for 
overtime this week, but I 
missed them. They were filled 
before I could pick any up.
I have to find another way of making extra cash.

...

386

I applied to refinance my auto loan, but the loan agreement requires a lower deductible on my insurance policy than the one I currently have. Anyway, my credit score has been dinged as a result of applying for the auto loan. Shitty. I'm going to call and see if they would approve the loan, or modify the loan terms to accept the higher deductible policy that I have and still approve the auto loan.

I wasn't able to sign up for overtime before the shifts were filled, so for next week, I'm just going to go ahead and take my vacation for Wednesday.

I'm thinking. I should have done something better with my days off this week. I mostly stayed home and played on my computer. I delivered with Door Dash here and there, but nothing major. There are these breaks where, you might not get any deliveries for an hour or so, so at that point, I sign out, and head home. What sucks is that, I might only get a handful of deliveries before that lull occurs.

So I'm going to do 2 things on Monday, call in to close my old checking account, and call to see about the refinancing offer, and see if they can modify the offer to accommodate the higher deductible that my plan has. If they can't, then I really can't refinance, a lower deductible.

Well. Actually. It worked out, the higher premiums for the lower deductible plan were lower than the savings for the monthly auto loan payment. Or to put in another way, the savings from refinancing were greater than the higher premiums I would pay to the insurance company. The first way I said it was confusing, but technically true and correct.

But it's not finalized yet, so, I guess this is going to be on my radar for a while.

I have work tonight, there is a storm out, I can hear the rain, and I can hear the thunder. I have a 1 dollar bill in my possession with the number 868 in the serial number, and I think I'm going to hold on to it. I thought about maybe depositing it into my checking account, but I think I'm going to hold on to it. I think that, earlier in the month, someone gave me some cash, a dollar bill, and I think it had either a 686 or an 868 in the serial number, something that had a special meaning to me, but wasn't a special number, in general, like 214 or 314 or 666 or 777 or 888 or and triples, or I don't know, it wasn't a generally special number in the serial number, just a personally special number. I don't want to think about 686 1 747 4 5593 868 3. 

Let's see, this week is going to be a short work week. I have to find something to do.

Just to gather my thoughts. 
I have a short work week. 

Do something productive with my time
Close my old checking account
Complete my auto loan refinancing stuff
Don't cancel my Wednesday vacation
Lookout for overtime this Friday
Watch Options on Friday

I'm going to plan my finances on a worst-case scenario framework, and the worst-case scenario is that I don't get any overtime. Well, worse things can happen than not getting overtime, but that's the scenario that I want to plan for. I'm not going to plan for an alien invasion or artificial intelligence singularity or world war three or anything like that.

Here's one thing. I just added Watch Options on Friday to my list. I realize, now, that on Friday, I should be at my desk all day. I need to set that aside as a trading day.

I rolled several options a few days ago, and I realize now that I forced the roll too early, I had about 2 weeks to wait for a better deal than the one I accepted to roll my options. I had 8 trading days, and that's really plenty of time to get a good deal. Lesson learned I guess.

By getting a good deal I mean having the orders executed at a price at the mark (the mid-point between the bid and the ask) or better.

But I've never waited that long for a fill before. I'm going to try something.

...

387

I bought cigarettes during my lunch break, and they're really expensive, 10 bucks. Man I need to quit. I didn't bring my pipe tobacco, thinking that I would try to get through the day without smoking. I brought my nicotine lozenges instead.

I have to be more disciplined about quitting.

But, the first cigarette was already unpleasant, so this might be easier than I'm thinking.

I think I need new tires. I don't know what this is going to cost.

...

388

The work week is over.
and now it's time
to say goodnight
to the rotten guy.

...

389

I have a new phone. I had my last one for about a year, the screen was getting warped, and eventually cracked. This new phone is slightly larger, and took some getting used to.

The work week starts up again. I did get a half shift of overtime.

My portfolio is in kind of a poor state of performance, so much of my investment strategy depends on having a lot of extra cash to throw at my positions, but with a lack of overtime these past few weeks, I've been really conservative with taking additional positions.

I wrote cash secured puts that won't expire until next year with the collateral that was released this month, I'm also aiming to roll many of my in-the-money puts into the beginning of next year, and I'm also pivoting back into index EFTs.

I also had to rework my budget. Usually I'd have August's bills paid by now. Put another way, I'd normally have August's bills paid my the second week of July, but that's not exactly the case, I have to plan for the possibility of paying my car payment twice, once on my old car note, and once for my new car note.

Kenneth

If you're listening.
I want you to know
that I know 
everything
about you.
and
I watch you constantly.

more or less.

I mean. I have a life and
all that. So I can't really
watch you all the time.

But I know more about
you than I should.

Unfortunately.

Anyway.
My advice to you 
is...
connection dropped...

Well. I don't know. Sometimes it comes to me, and sometimes it doesn't. My Robinhood portfolio has been cratering since June 29th, when I hit a peak. If I had cash I'd buy hard, but I don't have cash. Well, I put the cash from my options back into my investments. 3750 cash, or 7500 in buying power was released this last Friday. I don't think I put any money in, though. I took those funds and wrote new options, bought a few shares, rolled a few options, the shares held as collateral were also released on Friday, and I wrote new call options for those as well, but all of these options are way out into next year.

...

390

I went to the grocery store this morning. I've been eating at 7 - Eleven since they've been selling grill items for a dollar, so I haven't bothered buying groceries for a while, or eating at home. Last night, during lunch, I made a 7 - Eleven run, and bought and ate 4 grill items, 1 hot dog, and 3 cheeseburger dogs.

Anyway, I bought steaks, and, part of it was because I was joking around with the guy in the meat department at the grocery store. I normally would not buy steaks. Yeah, so, I bought 2 steaks, and now I'm eating them. I ate one just a few minutes ago, and now I'm cooking the second one, and I'm going to eat it soon. The first one was pretty good. One was sirloin, and the other is top sirloin. I don't know what the difference is. I usually don't buy meat that costs more than a few bucks. I've been eating pork sausage for a while.

This top sirloin is amazing, it was actually less per pound, but more overall than the sirloin. How did I cook it you ask? I just boiled it with my noodles.

...

391

I refinanced my car recently, and I was a little bit worried that if the process wasn't settled in time, I would end up having to pay 2 car payments in early August, a payment to my old lender, and a payment to my new lender, but that issue has been settled, and so those funds that I was holding to cover that issue have freed up.

There are times when Facebook prompts me to look back at memories from, whenever, and when I look at them, I think to myself: "This is actually something I would like to forget."

...

392

Breaking a block of sleep into smaller blocks of sleep doesn't really result in the same quality of sleep as just sleeping the larger sleep block.

...

393

Today is the last day of the work week for me. There are a few things that I need to take care of, and I don't think I'll be able to do any food delivery stuff this week. I'm trying to think how I should manage my time this week. Maybe I could go to the public library and study there.

Maybe I should get headphones.

...

394

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients
most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges

especially tangerines
mandarins are also somewhat fabulous
bergamont has a nice smell, but can taste like perfume
grapes

this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons

maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very
specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples

DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions

please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially
annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these
two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

The Amazing Things The Can Be Made From My Five Favorite Amazing things
   Oranges   	   Grapes   	   Lemons   	   Apples   	   Onions   
   Vitamin C   	   Wine   	   Lemonade   	   Cider   	   Onion Sauce   
   Orange Juice   	   Grape Juice   	   Pink Lemonade   	   Apple Juice   	   Onion Powder   
   Orangeade   	   Grape Jelly   	   Lemon Cake   	   Apple Pie   	   Onion Chowder   

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples
   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions
please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples
   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions
please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients
most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very
specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples
   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions
please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially
annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these
two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients
most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges  
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very
specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples
   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions
please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially
annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these
two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients
most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges  
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very
specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples
   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions
please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially
annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these
two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients
most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges 
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very
specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples
   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions
please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially
annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these
two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients
most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges

   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very
specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples
   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions
please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially
annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these
two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients
most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges

   especially tangerines

grapes

   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons

   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very
specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples

   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions

please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially
annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these
two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients
most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges

can you send me more
of what i need
because I'm running out.
especially tangerines
mandarins are also somewhat fabulous
bergamot has a nice smell, but can taste like perfume
grapes

this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast
lemons

maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very
specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples

DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions

please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially
annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these
two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

Oranges	Grapes	Lemons	Apples	Onions
Vitamin C	Wine	Lemonade	Cider	Onions Sauce
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients
most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges

   especially tangerines

grapes

   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons

   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very
specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples

   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions

please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially
annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these
two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients
most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges

especially tangerines
mandarins are also somewhat fabulous
bergamot has a nice smell, but can taste like perfume
grapes

this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons

maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very
specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples

DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions

please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially
annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these
two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

The Amazing Things The Can Be Made From My Five Favorite Amazing things
   Oranges   	   Grapes   	   Lemons   	   Apples   	   Onions   
   Vitamin C   	   Wine   	   Lemonade   	   Cider   	   Onion Sauce   
   Orange Juice   	   Grape Juice   	   Pink Lemonade   	   Apple Juice   	   Onion Powder   
   Orangeade   	   Grape Jelly   	   Lemon Cake   	   Apple Pie   	   Onion Chowder   

I slept all Wednesday. There are a few things on my mind. There have been a lot of things on my kind lately I'm just trying to think.

I added about 1717 to my Robinhood account last month, I'm predicting that doing the same this month is just not possible. There are 4 pay periods this month, as opposed to 5 pay period last month, and there's no telling, really, how much overtime will be available.

A bare-bones situation may result in only being able to put together 367 this month.

I remember when I first got started investing with Stockpile back in 2018, and only putting together 50 bucks per week, sometimes more, sometimes less. I was able to put together 6000 by the end of September 2018. 

I shouldn't get discouraged if I'm working with only a small amount of savings this month, I've worked with small amounts before and I've been able to turn those small amounts into something bigger.

Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy. 

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
apples
onions

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples
   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions
please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions

My Fruit + Vegetable Interests

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

the guy was
irritated with
his wife because
she really
was resistant to
going to see
a psychiatrist. 

grapes
lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples
   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions
please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples
   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!
onions
please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro but more so than any of these two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples
   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions
please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples
   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions
please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients
most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very
specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples
   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions
please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially
annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these
two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients
most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges  
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very
specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples
   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions
please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially
annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these
two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients
most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges  
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very
specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples
   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions
please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially
annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these
two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients
most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges 
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very
specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples
   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions
please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially
annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these
two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients
most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very
specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples
   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions
please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially
annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these
two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients
most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines
grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast
lemons
   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very
specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent
apples
   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!
onions



please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially
annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these
two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples
   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions
please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
apples
onions
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples
   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions
please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients
most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very
specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples
   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions
please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially
annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these
two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients
most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges  
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very
specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples
   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions
please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially
annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these
two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients
most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges  
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very
specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples
   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions
please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially
annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these
two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients
most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges 
   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very
specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples
   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions
please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially
annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these
two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients
most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges



   especially tangerines

grapes
   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons
   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very
specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples
   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions
please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially
annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these
two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients
most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges



   especially tangerines

grapes



   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons



   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very
specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples



   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions



please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially
annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these
two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients
most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges



especially tangerines
mandarins are also somewhat fabulous
bergamont has a nice smell, but can taste like perfume
grapes



this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons



maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very
specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples



DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions



please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially
annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these
two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

Oranges	Grapes	Lemons	Apples	Onions
Vitamin C	Wine	Lemonade	Cider	Onions Sauce
These are a few of my favorite things
Of all the magnificent ingredients of a fruit and vegetable salad, these are the ingredients
most likely to keep you healthy and happy.

oranges



   especially tangerines

grapes



   this is especially true after they have been properly fermented using yeast

lemons



   maintaining the appropriate conversion ratio of a given quantity of lemons into a very
specific volume of lemonade ensures that your lemon money is well spent

apples



   DO NOT. I REPEAT. DO NOT FORGET THE BANANAS!

onions



please do not get on my case about cilantro mixed with onions, and I would be especially
annoyed if you made a fuss about onions mixed with cilantro, but more so than any of these
two previously mentioned concoctions, there are also mixtures of leeks and parsleys

...

395
I'm taking a few online classes and I'm trying to think about how to get this all done on time. How to fit it all into my schedule, doing a small amount each day.

The only internet connection I have at home is mobile hotspot tethering through my phone, and it's not a lot of data. But I am ending this month with quite a bit left over. Almost 30 percent of my hotspot allocation unused.

Finally some overtime. Next week I signed up for the maximum amount allowed, and this is where juggling classes and overtime is going to put me in a situation where I need to be economical with my time.

This basically means not delivering DoorDash orders for the time being.

...

396

So I'm taking a few classes on programming through Coursera to pursue an opportunity at work, the classes aren't a prerequisite or requirement; I'm taking them to prepare for an exam to qualify me for the opportunity.

I just used a semi-colon, and a kind of amusing thought ran through my brain. semi-colons are used in programming to signify the word of an argument or statement. I don't remember that the exact term is.

All of these ideas are really new and unfamiliar to me, so I spend a lot of time watching the videos on repeat. Like multiple times. 

Sometimes I'll be prompted with an in-video quiz, and I won't know the answer right away so I'll re-watch the entire video up to the quiz to find the answer. I do this instead of entering the wrong answer, or testing answers on the quiz because I think this will help information stick more effectively.

But I think I'm plodding through these at a really slow pace.

The other thing that slows me down is that there are points in the course where I'm required to test my knowledge of the lesson by creating things with code, and I end up experimenting with a whole bunch of different ideas.

I need to get the exam for the program done by the end of September. I want to set a goal to do it by the end of August.

I have to think. I'm working with a time budget rather than a money budget, but the money budget is still there. I can't just take the month of August off from work. Well, it's something that I can do financially, but taking work off is something I really don't want to do.

What I want to do is work 60 hour weeks at work, or get as much overtime as I can, and study for the exam.

Here's why. If I were accepted into the program, I would be a student for 9 months, I would get a living stipend similar to what I'm getting paid now, except without overtime pay. I have to work overtime now, knowing that in the future, I might not get any overtime for a really long time.

Time budget. So skipping Door Dash deliveries will free up time to take the classes. Or at least some time to take the classes. The classes are expected to take 12 weeks, and I have maybe 9 weeks before the official deadline, 4 weeks until my personal deadline.

Where else can I free up time? For the last fee weeks I've been going to the library to study since there's an internet connection there, but I really can't get a whole lot done. The drive is only 10 or so minutes, but there are little time wasters here and there. If I need to take a leak, I have to pack up my study set-up, use the restroom, then set up all over again. If I'm hungry, I have to go out to eat, leaving food in my car doesn't exactly work because of the heat, and then the same issue of breaking down and setting up applies.

My thinking is this. To maximize my time budget I'll do the following things:
Stop Door Dashing for the time being.
Use my hot spot data at home, and not worry about running out or buying more hot spot data.
Buy more groceries when going to the grocery store.

...

397

What is on my mind right now? Well, challenges, and ones that aren't exactly fund challenges. Although, when I think about it, some challenges can be fun, others can be a major annoyance. Some challenges can be incredibly depressing.

What I'd say is this: the only thing you can really do in life is look out for yourself, watch your back. Remember the expression that: "There are daggers in men's smiles."

But I think that it's also important not to be too paranoid, it's important not to be too guarded, or, too much at a distance to others. You just. Kind of have to be careful about who you let in. Be careful about who you let get close, and who you help.

I think of how past societies and civilizations have degenerated, and devolved, and eventually collapsed.

Sometimes people will set up situations with the intention to see you respond negatively. What do you do in these cases? I've come across this before, and I've just never quite figured out how to get past them.

Maybe: 
relax, take a step back.
take a breather.

What kind of person does these kinds of things?

I think of video games, where, there are NPC's or Non-Playable Characters, they're the characters that the main character interacts with.

They only exist within the context of the character being played, the main character.

Sometimes I think: I'm the main character. Some people exist only with respect to a reference point, what is that reference point?

Sometimes I come across people and wonder: is this person sentient and conscious, or is this person's existence entirely programmatic? This person's existence is only defined by interacting with me in an aggravating fashion.

I think of the Sun, 
and I think of how the planets revolve around the sun.
and I think of planets that do not revolve around the sun,
and of planets that do not revolve around a star
and how these planets drift aimlessly through space,

I think of fixed points on the Cartesian plane.
I think of circles on the Cartesian plane, and
how circles define their existence by a fixed point
in the center of the circle.

I think of how planets orbit a star.

and then I think again 
of social situations, and
when I interact with 
another person I often wonder?
Does this person orbit 
me? or do I orbit 
this other person?

two bodies in space drift aimlessly before coming across
one another, and then become trapped in each-other's gravity.
or one celestial object begins to orbit the other, or
maybe they just pass each-other by and never bother
one another again.

I was working on a Java assignment for the Coursera class and I was struggling intensely, then I had a eureka moment, and since then I haven't really done anything. It's been 4 hours since I left home and arrived at the library, and I'm not sure that I've done anything, other than blogging, since the eureka moment, which happened about an hour ago. Coding is actually pretty fun. It reminds me, somewhat, of Excel, and how, sometimes you might make formulas out of other formulas. Getting started can be a challenge.

...

398

I'm thinking: don't get distracted, don't get side-tracked, and don't get bogged-down.

After I completed the first portion of the coding assignment, the rest came easy. I was able to recall how some of the logic worked, and how to format statements to prevent or avoid a bug or crash or error notification.

Sometimes I get the feeling that the Universe is conspiring against me, but then I wonder if the truth is that the Universe is actually operating in my favor.

I did have something interesting happen earlier. It felt like the stars were aligned in exactly the most unusual way I could possibly imagine, and I think I know what caused the coincidence, but it still made me nervous.

I really want to nap, but I don't want to go all the way back home, I don't want to nap in my car because it's just way too hot. I want to continue working on my coding classes, but I'm mentally fatigued.

Maybe this is the part of my life where I face challenges. Maybe I should focus on the few things that are important, and not worry about all this other stuff. Maybe I should look for anonymity.

There are just. A lot of things that are worrying my right now. Quite a few stressors. And I almost feel like I've been somewhat distracted lately.

I think I should pile up as much cash as I can until I feel safe and secure. Cut my spending as much as I can for the same reason. Stay away from anything too risky. 

Look.
Stay at cruising speed
As much as you can.
You're doing okay, don't worry
Too much about whatever
It is you're worrying about.

Stay at cruising altitude.
Don't look for turbulence.
And you're right. Be careful about
Who you let into you're life.

Stay away from anyone who is
Clearly trying to cause you trouble.

And you do need to start sticking 
Up for yourself more often, Kenneth.
You seem to attract bullies the way 
Honey attracts bears. That's just
The story of your life, Kenneth.

And stop running away 
from things that 
aggravate you, and start 
running toward
The things you desire,
Whatever that is.

Maybe it's the perfect 
Collection of
Exchange traded funds,
Or an investment portfolio 
the market by exactly one-
Point-four percentage points.
Or going to graduate school.

Don't chase after anything
That you don't actually want.
Sometimes people will try to
Make you envious, but, try to
Have honest introspections about
Whether you really want what they
Have or not.

Sometimes people are going to
Challenge you in one way or another,
And sometimes you should and
Have to rise to the challenge, and
Sometimes it makes sense to avoid
Trying to win games you have no 
interest playing, but if you're forced 
To play, play to win, even if winning 
Means causing the entire universe
To collapse in the process.

Be the butterfly that that turns Los Angeles into a heap of rubble.
Don't worry about the sky collapsing. Worry about how you. Need to stop running.
Anyway, that's just my 2 cents

Kenneth.
In all honesty.
You should do.
Whatever it is that.
You.
Want to do.

...

399

What is it? Well, sometimes I'm just frustrated with life. When I really think about things, and weigh the downs and ups, things are actually very good. I think that it's just when I'm faced with challenges in life, those challenges are what's right in front of my face, and at the front of my mind, so I give more weight to those challenges then I probably should, but I think that almost everyone does this, and when some people are irritated they sort of just come out swinging, sometimes when I'm in traffic people are just total jerks.

There is this thing where, a right lane becomes a right turn lane, and in order to stay on the road you're on, you kind of have to switch lanes at the very last minute, this change isn't well demarcated with paint, so, and honestly, do we really want more lanes closed for maintenance than are already closed for maintenance? Do we really want to spend inordinate amounts of tax money on road markings? I don't think so, I think we should try to get along with each-other in traffic.

There was this one frontage road that was like that. The navigation system said to make a right-turn at some point, so I stayed in the right-lane with the intention of making a right-turn at some point, but I had to keep lane-switching left because the right-lane kept becoming right-turn ramps.

Things are going great, and, I shouldn't get too down by this or that issue. Yesterday I was extremely tired. After I completed my errands for that day, some of the coding stuff, and other things I had on my list of things to do, I went home, and slept from 8:00 PM to maybe around 11:00 AM this morning.

...

400

I only worked on coding for a short amount of time today. Maybe an hour or so, then stopped. I think I'm going to approach the learning pace differently from how I originally planned.

It's just so damn hot.

...

401

but i don't really know if i really want to deal with ONEQ. There is really a whole lot of bull shit on a lot of these total market index funds, and i really don't want to deal with a lot of them. stupid. stupid. I know. there's just a lot of shitty ones on the index. zombie ticker symbols on the index. some of them never fall off the index. well. i don't know. a lot of them are garbage.

I did manage to take care of a few things with my old. With my 401(k). and that was kind of nice. I don't know. what else to do. there were a few student loan, student aid, and student grant related stuff for school. I don't recall. exactly what the deadline is for the application period. I want to say that it is 06/04/2022. maybe it used to be the way to do things.

Another set of notes starts here
My electricity bill was almost 9.00 
fucking dollars. I guess that isn't a huge amount of money.
when we made even more pizza for the
hungry Cowboy fans who were starving.
Another set of notes starts here
My electricity bill was almost 9.00 fucking 
dollars. I guess that isn't a huge amount of money.

Some of the tweets on twitter are incomprehensible, and I've realized that. Yeah, I should just focus on writing poems, really.
The air is cool and dry
the night is almost at it's end
tomorrow is a new day

#haiku
#tercet

I really have to try to stay off twitter. I have to try not to get too caught up in the twitter discussions. This is a major time-drain considering that. I really have no effect on any of the situations that I tweet about. I'm going to focus strictly on the things that matter to me.

Alexander Pushkin was here and so was
Alexander Peresvet who was also here and
Leonardo Consuelo was next to the window.

Well, there were a few things. One is that I got my meningitis vaccine. Fucking expensive. Really fucking expensive. I paid out of pocket. Really fucking expensive. Jesus. I don't really know.

ÞȲ say this and tell me new things to do.
ƿ here is how we made pizza with turkey. Ȳ
we thought that things would get better,
but they didn't we saw all things there. D
and even when they did not, we saw them. Y

We figured that they would always suck. Ʉ Ѵ
Ɏ we saw that we couldn't
obtain a fishing license so
we figured that things sucked.

Ж at the lake we went
into the deep side of the
body of water and looked
for clams.

Ѯ so this is where we went when
we got bored and spent time
outside of the city and went fishing

Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being baptized an acolyte of Christianity & Company Incorporated, PLC. so. You know. It's like that.

Too many fucking distractions

Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being baptized an acolyte of Christianity & Co. Inc, PLC. so. You know. It's like that.

What I have to think about is this: Should I be stressed out? or not?
Anyway, There really isn't any point.

Okay: Twitter Blue or Twitter for Professionals? Here's the thing: there is a Twitter Parody Policy for Professional Accounts, and I've never figured this out, how is a factious remarks focused account different from parody account? and at what point have I crossed the line?

best of all is where
you see where the taste
the bacon was and how even
the best of all things is new.

Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being baptized an acolyte of Christianity & Company Incorporated, PLC (Société anonyme). so. You know. It's like that.

when you live in a wigwam and
the house you thought was
a yurt was really a domus

Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being baptized as a cultist of Christianity & Company Incorporated, PLC Société anonyme. so. You know. It's like that.

it is where you left it and 
exactly how you left it
long fingernails make it
harder to type.

Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being baptized an acolyte of Christianity & Company Incorporated, PLC (Société anonyme). so. You know. It's like that.

i wonder what happened here.
because i seem to have had
a fascination with
nancy pelosi.

Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being baptized an acolyte of Christianity & Company Incorporated, PLC. so. You know. It's like that.

and I'm still so resentful
about it all and I cannot
forget what I cannot forgive.
won't happen

Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being baptized an acolyte of Christianity & Co. Inc, PLC. so. You know. It's like that.

Okay: Twitter Blue or Twitter for Professionals? Here's the thing: there is a Twitter Parody Policy for Professional Accounts, and I've never figured this out, how is a factious remarks focused account different from parody account? and at what point have I crossed the line?

The Alexander Peresvet laser weapon is named after Paris Alexander, the Trojan Prince who, resembling a well known actor, had a laser sharp look that caused uteruses to tremble in ecstasy and queef with exalted delight.

The best way for Finland and Sweden to get an inch in on Erdogan is by challenging him to a game of Bakugan, and winning, and that's Bakugan, not backgammon.

how it all turned out for the best
how it all worked out for the best
how it all got better and ended up
the best thing that could have ever
happened.

The best way for Finland and Sweden to earn the respect of Erdogan is by challenging him to a game of Bakugan, and winning, and that's Bakugan, not backgammon.

best of all was the
way things went when
things went south.

The best way for Finland and Sweden earn the respect of Erdogan is by challenging him to a game of Bakugan, and winning, and that's Bakugan, not backgammon.

where we found one another
and how we found one another
and how we got to know
one another and how we seem
to think all things
are the best things
and the waste of time we wasted.

The best way for Finland and Sweden earn the respect of Erdogan, is by challenging him to a game of Bakugan, and winning. and that's Bakugan, not backgammon.

Strange times in the place
where you were yesterday
the day is dry the
air is trying to dry everything there.

The best way for Finland and Sweden to placate Erdogan, is by challenging him to a game of Bakugan, and winning. and that's Bakugan, not backgammon.

Vaginal intercourse is a scam, and a conspiracy. Whenever you want to liquidate your position, you want to put the funds into different assets, not different money pits.

Vaginal intercourse is a scam, and a conspiracy.
it's how you make more babies
and end up with so many more
mouths to feed and so many hungry
people.

it turned out it really was
a scam and really was
a conspiracy.
that was un-fucking believable, but I eventually figured it out.  
turns out the answer is this:

function printPixel(nameImage, xpos, ypos) {
var someImg = new SimpleImage(nameImage);
var answer = 

print("red is", someImg.getRed( xpos, ypos ));
print("green is", someImg.getGreen( xpos, ypos ));
print("blue is", someImg.getBlue( xpos, ypos ));

return answer;

}
printPixel("drewgreen.png",10, 10);
print( " ")
printPixel("drewgreen.png",250, 500);

so the second to the last line is print( " "), and that's actually something that isn't supposed to be there, but I'm putting it there to create a line break, for some reason, the HTML for a line break doesn't work for the Java script display emulator, even though I read several pages that said to use <br> or <br /> for a line break when I looked up how to create line breaks in Java. Anyway, this is the practice question:

CODE:

function printPixel(nameImage, xpos, ypos) {
// missing code
}
printPixel("drewgreen.png",10, 10);
printPixel("drewgreen.png",250, 500);

OUTPUT:

red is 1
green is 255
blue is 0
red is 102
green is 90
blue is 80

So, your goal is to fill in the area of the question that states //missing code, and fill it in with code that produces the OUTPUT result listed below. There is no answer key provided, and I'm thinking that it's possible for two different people to come up with two different answers, in the same way that if you were asked: "How do you get 5" one person might say 1 + 4, and another person might say: 3 + 2, and someone else might say 5 * 1, and all that. There might be a type on the OUTPUT section, but I'm not sure. What I think is that 255 represents pure green, and having a red value of 1 would make. Actually, I think this is incorrect now that I think about it. It is possible to have 255 red 255 green and 255 blue in a color.

One experiment before I came to the answer was code that looked something like this:

print ("Red Is") + print(someImg.getRed( xpos, ypos ));
print ("Green Is") + print(someImg.getGreen( xpos, ypos ));
print ("Blue is") + print(someImg.getBlue( xpos, ypos ));

And it basically didn't work.

...

402

The heat is obscene. Usually 
there are people at the pool, 
today there are people at the 
pool, but not many. It's hot.

I need to wrap up week 2.
and see how there
are better ways to melt.

...

403

but i don't really know if i really want to deal with ONEQ. There is really a whole lot of bull shit on a lot of these total market index funds, and i really don't want to deal with a lot of them. stupid. stupid. I know. there's just a lot of shitty ones on the index. zombie ticker symbols on the index. some of them never fall off the index. well. i don't know. a lot of them are garbage.

I did manage to take care of a few things with my old. With my 401(k). and that was kind of nice. I don't know. what else to do. there were a few student loan, student aid, and student grant related stuff for school. I don't recall. exactly what the deadline is for the application period. I want to say that it is 

Another set of notes starts here
My electricity bill was almost 9.00 fucking dollars. I guess that isn't a huge amount of money.
Some of the tweets on twitter are incomprehensible, and I've realized that. Yeah, I should just focus on writing poems, really.

The air is cool and dry
the night is almost at it's end
tomorrow is a new day

better we say that
all things are new
things and new things
are brand new.

I really have to try to stay off twitter. I have to try not to get too caught up in the twitter discussions. This is a major time-drain considering that. I really have no effect on any of the situations that I tweet about. I'm going to focus strictly on the things that matter to me.

mostly and most of the time
and half of the time too.

Alexander Pushkin where you Alexander Peresvet get all the
best things that you can imagine.
Well, there were a few things. One is that I got my meningitis vaccine. Fucking expensive. Really fucking expensive. I paid out of pocket. Really fucking expensive. Jesus. I don't really know.

hg and I really think
ÞȲ that you do deserve
ƿȲ it all and i mean well
DY and I mean that you
Ʉ Ѵ deserve mostly good things
Ɏ the best things and 
Ж especially
Ѯ the booty.

Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being baptized an acolyte of Christianity & Company Incorporated, PLC. so. You know. It's like that.

Too many fucking distractions
What I have to think about is this: Should I be stressed out? or not?

but
the best things in 
life are where
all things come to an end

Anyway, There really isn't any point.
of doing it

Okay: Twitter Blue or Twitter for Professionals? Here's the thing: there is a Twitter Parody Policy for Professional Accounts, and I've never figured this out, how is a factious remarks focused account different from parody account? and at what point have I crossed the line?

and the things
they said were
worse than
the things we
thought they said.

when you send me a postcard
i thought that it was because
you were sending me some stamps.
 
The Alexander Peresvet laser weapon is named after Paris Alexander, the Trojan Prince who, resembling a well known actor, had a laser sharp look that caused uteruses to tremble in ecstasy and queef with exalted delight.

Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being baptized an acolyte of Christianity & Company Incorporated, PLC (Société anonyme). so. You know. It's like that.

and then there
was a light above
the rest of us
and we saw what
we wanted to see and
we heard what we
wanted to hear.

Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being baptized an acolyte of Christianity & Company Incorporated, PLC (Société anonyme). so. You know. It's like that.

when i told you
countless times
that it was all
here.

Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being baptized as a cultist of Christianity &

Okay: Twitter Blue or Twitter for Professionals? Here's the thing: there is a Twitter Parody Policy for Professional Accounts, and I've never figured this out, how is a factious remarks focused account different from parody account? and at what point have I crossed the line?

and
I really want 
to know how
you never figured that out.

The Alexander Peresvet laser weapon is named after Paris Alexander, the Trojan Prince who, resembling a well known actor, had a laser sharp look that caused uteruses to tremble in ecstasy and queef with exalted delight.

you can keep looking
but happiness has always
been right here.

The best way for Finland and Sweden to get an 
inch in on Erdogan is by challenging him to a 
game of Bakugan, and winning, and that's 
Bakugan, not backgammon.

and you will know that
I am the best of all the
things you can think of

The best way for Finland and Sweden to earn the respect of Erdogan is by challenging him to a game of Bakugan, and winning, and that's Bakugan, not backgammon.

and that happiness
isn't really all that
hard to find and really
isn't all that far away.

The best way for Finland and Sweden earn the respect of Erdogan is by challenging him to a game of Bakugan, and winning, and that's Bakugan, not backgammon.

then at some point you will
say to yourself everything
really did turn out for the 
best.

The best way for Finland and Sweden earn the respect of Erdogan, is by challenging him to a game of Bakugan, and winning. and that's Bakugan, not backgammon.

then you will know
what you are really looking for.

The best way for Finland and Sweden to placate Erdogan, is by challenging him to a game of Bakugan, and winning. and that's Bakugan, not backgammon.

here is where you find out
how happy I can make you

Vaginal intercourse is a scam, and a conspiracy. Whenever you want to liquidate your position, you want to put the funds into different assets, not different money pits.

Vaginal intercourse is a scam, and a conspiracy.
and you will
have too many babies as
a result and you will have
so many mouths to feed.

I would like to go grocery shopping, but the question I have for myself is: Do I need to go grocery shopping now? I want to go grocery shopping right now, but do I need to go grocery shopping right now? Are there any issues that can arise from putting off grocery shopping? and are there any issues that can arise from going grocery shopping when I don't need to? Or from going grocery shopping sooner than I need to?

Well, let's say I put off grocery shopping. As of right now, I have both the time, and energy to go grocery shopping. I also have the money to go grocery shopping, but, I don't want to spend any money on groceries right now. I have enough groceries right now. So do I really need to go grocery shopping? The issue that I can think of is that, later, I might not have the time, or the energy to go grocery shopping. Thinking about the future, I might have the time, but not the energy, or I might have the energy, but not the time, or I might have the energy at the wrong time of day in the sense that I might have the energy to go grocery shopping at 11:00 PM, but the grocery store isn't open at that hour.

I really do not want to spend any money right now. Or, I guess what I mean is, I want to postpone any spending that I have to make into the future, or as far into the future as I can. There are these times, though, when I'm hungry as hell, at some weird time of day, and if I don't have anything to eat, then I have to go out to eat, and that can cause me to spend more money than I really want to spend.

I have to think: do I really like going out to eat? The answer isn't always a yes. Sometimes I like going out to eat, and sometimes I do not like going out to eat, the answer varies, depending on my mood, and sometimes the answer varies depending on how pleasant or unpleasant my last dining experience was.

I bought Vitamin B supplements. Maybe this will help with my energy levels.
I accepted overtime this week, even though I wasn't really planning on it.
In fact, I was planning on taking the whole week off, then changed my mind last minute and just worked instead, then overtime was dropped at the last minute this week and I took it.

This assignment took a while. It was basically changing the pixel colors in a square. You basically take a 200 x 200 square, and then change the colors, the first part of the assignment is changing the color to Yellow, then changing the color to Magenta.


var img = new SimpleImage(200,200);
print(img);

 for (var pixel of img.values())  {
 var newG = 255 - pixel.getGreen();
 pixel.setGreen(newG);

}

print(img);

 for (var pixel of img.values())  {
 var newR = 255 - pixel.getRed();
 pixel.setRed(newR);

}

print(img);

 for (var pixel of img.values())  {
 var newG = 0 - pixel.getGreen();
 pixel.setGreen(newG);

}

print(img);

 for (var pixel of img.values())  {
 var newB = 255 - pixel.getBlue();
 pixel.setBlue(newB);

}

print(img);

These were actually pretty interesting. It made me think about Instagram, and Instagram filters, changing the colors of an image, and really seeing how it works.

var image = new SimpleImage ("chapel.png");

for (var pixel of image.values())  {
var newR =pixel.getRed() - 255;
pixel.setRed(newR);

}

print(image);


var image = new SimpleImage ("chapel.png");

for (var pixel of image.values())  {
var newR = 255 + pixel.getRed();
pixel.setRed(newR);

}

print(image);

This coding question was interesting. The goal is to create a green rectangle in the upper left corner of the image. My first attempt was this:


var image = new SimpleImage("chapel.png");

for (var pixel of image.values()) {
if (((pixel.getY() <  50 )) + ((pixel.getX() <  50 ))){
pixel.setRed(0);
pixel.setBlue(0);
pixel.setGreen(255);
}
}

print(image);

but it didn't work, I tried reversing the carrots and adding equal signs, but those didn't work either, so I tried putting 2 if statements in, one for the X value, and one for the Y value, and it turns out that it worked. The correct coding is below.

var image = new SimpleImage("chapel.png");

for (var pixel of image.values()) {
if ((pixel.getY() <  50 )) if ((pixel.getX() <  50 )){
pixel.setRed(0);
pixel.setBlue(0);
pixel.setGreen(255);
}
}

print(image);

I tried to sign up for 2 full shifts of overtime for next week, but the system seems to have tricked me into taking 1 full shift, and one half shift, as soon as I went in to take the second full shift, only a half shift was available, so I took that.

Sometimes I get irritated when things don't seem to go my way, but sometimes, I think that it's for the best, that maybe the universe creates obstacles that will actually work out to benefit me. I haven't able to get much of the coding classes done this week, and part of it is the amount of overtime that I've been working, so I think that, maybe, not getting as much overtime as I would like is actually for the best.

Some of the coding assignments are kind of difficult, even though they're relatively simple. A lot of this reminds me of math, especially math involving spreadsheets.

I had lunch the other day with one of the mechanical engineers who used to work at the factory, and I was explaining that I was looking into the software developer academy opportunity with the company, and I was telling him how, to me, coding is like a machine, code may have bugs that cause crashes the way a machine might have a mechanical problem that causes jams.

My main challenge is setting aside time to work on the classes. I have to take overtime if it's available, that's not going to change, it's just one of the constraints I need to work with.

This took forever to figure out, but I had an issue producing the result without making changes outside of the designated coding area.

The task is to fill in the // missing code area

function topRightCorner(cornerWidth, cornerHeight, someImage, red, green, blue) {

    // missing code

}

var picture = new SimpleImage("chapel.png");
var result = topRightCorner(30, 60, picture, 255, 255, 0);
print(result);
var picture2 = new SimpleImage("smalllion.jpg");
var result2 = topRightCorner(125, 20, picture2, 255, 0, 0);
print(result2);

So listed below was my first result, now, this is technically incorrect because I'm only able to produce the correctly displayed result by printing the image inside the designated area, and cancelling the printing outside of the coded function area.

function topRightCorner(cornerWidth, cornerHeight, someImage, red, green, blue) {

var image = new SimpleImage(someImage);
for (var pixel of image.values()) {
if ((pixel.getY() <  cornerHeight )) if ((pixel.getX() >  image.getWidth() - cornerWidth )){
pixel.setRed(red);
pixel.setBlue(blue);
pixel.setGreen(green);
}
}
print(image);
}

var picture = new SimpleImage("chapel.png");
var result = topRightCorner(30, 60, picture, 255, 255, 0);
//print(result);
var picture2 = new SimpleImage("smalllion.jpg");
var result2 = topRightCorner(125, 20, picture2, 255, 0, 0);
//print(result2);

Anyway, I was looking at my old notes, and there were coding functions where return answer is used at the end of the code, and then print(answer) or print(result) is used to generate the displayed answer, so I did that, even though in this case the assignment is dealing with images, rather than equations, anyway, it worked, it took me forever to figure this out.

function topRightCorner(cornerWidth, cornerHeight, someImage, red, green, blue) {

var image = new SimpleImage(someImage);
for (var pixel of image.values()) {
if ((pixel.getY() <  cornerHeight )) if ((pixel.getX() >  image.getWidth() - cornerWidth )){
pixel.setRed(red);
pixel.setBlue(blue);
pixel.setGreen(green);
}
}
return image

}

var picture = new SimpleImage("chapel.png");
var result = topRightCorner(30, 60, picture, 255, 255, 0);
print(result);
var picture2 = new SimpleImage("smalllion.jpg");
var result2 = topRightCorner(125, 20, picture2, 255, 0, 0);
print(result2);

It took me a really long time to figure this out. I don't even want to start working on the next question. I really don't.
This was the last question of the assignment, and it came rather quickly:

function changeRed(width, height) {
    var picture = new SimpleImage(width, height);
    var red = 0;

for (var pixel of picture.values()) {
if ((pixel.getX() )){
pixel.setRed(pixel.getX());
}
}

    return picture;
}

var result = changeRed(256,200);
print(result);

...

404

I have 2 paychecks for the remainder of the month.

I have to think.

There is one more question on the coding assignment that I have to complete. It's an optional challenge question, but I think it's important for me to do it anyway.

I need to replace my tires and get an oil change soon.

I need to think.

Even though I've taken a break from Door Dashing, I still don't have a whole ton of time for studying coding, but when I think about it, I wasn't really doing a whole lot of Door Dashing to begin with. I need a better study routine.

I've gone out to eat more often recently, but it really doesn't save much time. When you go out to eat, you only buy one meal, and you have to go out for each meal. So that didn't really save much time either.

So maybe, going back to grocery shopping.

...

405

I didn't get any coding done today. I tried to wake up early, like 2 hours before work, but that didn't happen.

Two possibilities: I can wake up 2 hours early, or go to bed 2 hours late.

The application isn't due until late October. I want to get it done sooner than that, so that maybe I can get an acceptance or rejection sooner, and either pursue or exclude some other opportunity.

...

406

So this programming issue was annoying, but I was able to figure it out. Here is the issue:
The question has you create an image, based on a previous image, which, according to the instructions has pixels with blue values of 200 and green values of 100, and then shows an image of what this should look like, I was having trouble getting the image based on the instructions,
and it's because it's a trick question, the image has blue values of 100, and green values of 200.
an image with blue values of 200 and green values of 100 would look different.
I've included my code below, it includes extra code that I was using to test the issues I was having with my initial code.

function changeRed(width, height) {
    var picture = new SimpleImage(width, height);
    var red = 0;
//    var blue = 200;
//    var green = 100;

for (var pixel of picture.values()) {    

if ((pixel.getX()  )){
pixel.setRed(pixel.getX());

//pixel.setBlue(blue);

//pixel.setGreen(green);

pixel.setGreen(100);

pixel.setBlue(200);

}

}

    return picture;
}

var result = changeRed(256,200);
print(result);

var RedBlue = result.getPixel(3, 3)
print(RedBlue)

var RedBlue = result.getPixel(9, 9)
print(RedBlue)

var answer = new SimpleImage("RedBlueGreen.png")
print(answer)

var RedBlue = answer.getPixel(3, 3)
print(RedBlue)

var RedBlue = answer.getPixel(9, 9)
print(RedBlue)

...

407

This was the strangest thing ever, I tried rolling a number of my options, and I couldn't do it via mobile, the mechanism on mobile just wasn't there any more. I had to do it on my laptop.

...

408

I'm somewhat tired, but I really have to plow through this. Jesus. I really want to complete Week 2, and I can't believe how long I've been working on Week 2, but I have to get this done.

One thing is that,
I want to be able to eyeball things.
I don't know if this makes sense, but I want to be able to
just,
eyeball issues.

...

409

So this was an interesting assignment, basically, I have to take a picture and change the Red, Green, Blue values of the pixels so that each third has a max red, max green or max blue value.

this was my first attempt at solving the issue, it's not technically the correct answer, but I had to do it this way to create a starting point:

var picture = new SimpleImage("hilton.jpg");
 
     for (var pixel of picture.values()) {

        if ((pixel.getX () >= 0  )) if ((pixel.getX () <= 47  )){
        pixel.setRed(255);
        }
        if ((pixel.getX () >= 47 )) if ((pixel.getX () <= 95  )){
        pixel.setGreen(255);
        }
        if ((pixel.getX () >= 95 )) if ((pixel.getX () <= 140 )){
        pixel.setBlue(255);
        }
    }
 
 print(picture)

What I did was manually enter the x-values that would create different 1/3 stripes for the picture, but this wouldn't work, if, say, I was trying to use this code on a different picture with a different width, so the next step is to create a code that automatically creates the 1/3 values, and that's the next step.

var picture = new SimpleImage("hilton.jpg");
 
     for (var pixel of picture.values()) {

        if ((pixel.getX () >= (0 * picture.getWidth() * (1/3))  )) if ((pixel.getX () <= (1 * picture.getWidth() * (1/3))  )){
        pixel.setRed(255);
        }
        if ((pixel.getX () >= (1 * picture.getWidth() * (1/3)) )) if ((pixel.getX () <= (2 * picture.getWidth() * (1/3))  )){
        pixel.setGreen(255);
        }
        if ((pixel.getX () >= (2 * picture.getWidth() * (1/3)) )) if ((pixel.getX () <= (3 * picture.getWidth() * (1/3) ))){
        pixel.setBlue(255);
        }
    }
 
 print(picture)

once it can base the x-coordinates on the actual width, it can be used on any other picture.

var picture = new SimpleImage("eastereggs.jpg");
 
     for (var pixel of picture.values()) {

        if ((pixel.getX () >= (0 * picture.getWidth() * (1/3))  )) if ((pixel.getX () <= (1 * picture.getWidth() * (1/3))  )){
        pixel.setRed(255);
        }
        if ((pixel.getX () >= (1 * picture.getWidth() * (1/3)) )) if ((pixel.getX () <= (2 * picture.getWidth() * (1/3))  )){
        pixel.setGreen(255);
        }
        if ((pixel.getX () >= (2 * picture.getWidth() * (1/3)) )) if ((pixel.getX () <= (3 * picture.getWidth() * (1/3) ))){
        pixel.setBlue(255);
        }
    }
 
 print(picture)

var picture = new SimpleImage("eastereggs.jpg");
 
     for (var pixel of picture.values()) {

        if ((pixel.getX () >= (0 * picture.getWidth() * (1/3)) )) if ((pixel.getX () <= (1 * picture.getWidth() * (1/3)) )){
        pixel.setRed(255);
        }
        if ((pixel.getX () >= (1 * picture.getWidth() * (1/3)) )) if ((pixel.getX () <= (2 * picture.getWidth() * (1/3)) )){
        pixel.setGreen(255);
        }
        if ((pixel.getX () >= (2 * picture.getWidth() * (1/3)) )) if ((pixel.getX () <= (3 * picture.getWidth() * (1/3)) )){
        pixel.setBlue(255);
        }
    }
 
 print(picture)

I tried to simplify the code, but this didn't work.

 var picture = new SimpleImage("hilton.jpg");
 
     for (var pixel of picture.values()) {

        if ((((1 * picture.getWidth() * (1/3)))  <= (pixel.getX ()) >= ((0 * picture.getWidth() * (1/3)))   )){
        pixel.setRed(255);
        }
        if ((((2 * picture.getWidth() * (1/3)))  <= (pixel.getX ()) >= ((1 * picture.getWidth() * (1/3)))   )){
        pixel.setGreen(255);
        }
        if ((((3 * picture.getWidth() * (1/3))) <= (pixel.getX ()) >= ((2 * picture.getWidth() * (1/3)))    )){
        pixel.setBlue(255);
        }
    }
 
 print(picture)

...

410

This took forever, and I'm finally done. The issue I had initially was simply making the code work, but then I had to turn it into a function, to make the code apply to different inputs, in this case, different images, what it came down to was an oversight I had with a previous question: functions need a return() line. Took forever, but it's done, and it works.



        function swapRedGreen(someImage){ 
        var picture = new SimpleImage(someImage);
        for (var pixel of picture.values()) {
        
        var red1 = pixel.getRed(); 
        var green1 = pixel.getGreen();
        var blue1 = pixel.getBlue();
        
        pixel.setGreen(red1);   
        pixel.setRed(green1);

                             
                                             }
        return(picture);
                                             }
 

var result = swapRedGreen("chapel.png");
print(result);

var result = swapRedGreen("dinos.png");
print(result);

var result = swapRedGreen("drewRobert.png");
print(result);


        function swapRedGreen(someImage)           { 
        var picture = new SimpleImage(someImage);
        for (var pixel of picture.values())        {
        
        var red = pixel.getRed(); 
        var green = pixel.getGreen();
        var blue = pixel.getBlue();
       
        if (pixel.getGreen() == 51 ) if (pixel.getBlue() == 227 )  {
        pixel.setRed(255);
        pixel.setGreen(255); 
        pixel.setBlue(0);

                                                                   }                                      
                                  
        
                                  

                             
                                             }
        return(picture);
                                             }
 

var result = swapRedGreen("duke_blue_devil.png");
print(result);

        var red = result.getRed(30,30); 
        var green = result.getGreen(30,30);
        var blue = result.getBlue(30,30);
        
        print(red);
        print(green);
        print(blue);



        function swapRedGreen(someImage)           { 
        var picture = new SimpleImage(someImage);
        for (var pixel of picture.values())        {
        
        var red = pixel.getRed(); 
        var green = pixel.getGreen();
        var blue = pixel.getBlue();
       
        if (pixel.getGreen() != 255 ) 
        if (pixel.getBlue() != 255 )  
        if (pixel.getRed() != 255 )                                {
            
        pixel.setRed(255);
        pixel.setGreen(255); 
        pixel.setBlue(0);

                                                                   }                                      
                                  
        
                                  

                             
                                             }
        return(picture);
                                             }
 

var result = swapRedGreen("duke_blue_devil.png");
print(result);

        var red = result.getRed(30,30); 
        var green = result.getGreen(30,30);
        var blue = result.getBlue(30,30);
        
        print(red);
        print(green);
        print(blue);

So this one was also interesting, in the first attempt, I tried to make all the blue pixels yellow, but I found that I came out with a better result by turning all non-white pixels yellow, there seemed to be a border around the image and was a blue that was not the exact same blue as the rest of the image.

...

411

I got some sweet overtime next week.

...

412

I think I only worked on coding on Thursday this week.

Getting the classes done before the end of August seems kind of out of the question considering the pace I'm working at.

Everything is due late October, so I kind of have time.

...

413

I spent about 3 hours on coding course work today. Some of it was just listening to videos on my way to work, and some of it was in between blocks of sleep.

I got off work at midnight, got home at around 1, slept for 4 hours, studied for an hour, rested another 3 hours, studied for an hour, then went back to sleep.

My plan was to wake up about 2 hour before work, and spend those 2 hours on my course work, but that didn't happen, I was so damn tired.

My tiredness feels different. It's less body tiredness and fatigue, and more heat tiredness.

...

414
I started using the discussion forums in Coursera to figure out some of the problems that the course quizzes on.

There was one question that asked: what do we do about quiz questions that aren't covered in the course material?

And 

...

415

This one was actually pretty easy, it was basically to create a function to create a border around an image.

        function addBorder(someImage)                  { 
        var picture = new SimpleImage(someImage);
        for (var pixel of picture.values())            {
        
        var height = picture.getHeight(); 
        var width = picture.getWidth();
       
        if (pixel.getX() > (picture.getWidth() - 10))  {
                    pixel.setRed(0);
                    pixel.setGreen(0); 
                    pixel.setBlue(0);
                                                       }
         if (pixel.getX() < 10)                        {
                    pixel.setRed(0);
                    pixel.setGreen(0); 
                    pixel.setBlue(0);
                                                       }
        if (pixel.getY() > picture.getHeight() - 10 )       {
                    pixel.setRed(0);
                    pixel.setGreen(0); 
                    pixel.setBlue(0);
                                                            }                                      
        if (pixel.getY() < 10 )       {
                    pixel.setRed(0);
                    pixel.setGreen(0); 
                    pixel.setBlue(0);
                                                            }                             
        
                             
                                             }
        return(picture);
                                             }
 

var result = addBorder("duke_blue_devil.png");
print(result);
var result = addBorder("palm-and-beach.png");
print(result);
var result = addBorder("smallhands.png");
print(result);
var result = addBorder("eastereggs.jpg");
print(result);

        function addBorder(someImage, thickness)                  { 
        var picture = new SimpleImage(someImage);

        for (var pixel of picture.values())            {
        
        var height = picture.getHeight(); 
        var width = picture.getWidth();
       
        if (pixel.getX() > (picture.getWidth() - thickness))  {
                    pixel.setRed(0);
                    pixel.setGreen(0); 
                    pixel.setBlue(0);
                                                       }
         if (pixel.getX() < thickness)                        {
                    pixel.setRed(0);
                    pixel.setGreen(0); 
                    pixel.setBlue(0);
                                                       }
        if (pixel.getY() > picture.getHeight() - thickness )       {
                    pixel.setRed(0);
                    pixel.setGreen(0); 
                    pixel.setBlue(0);
                                                            }                                      
        if (pixel.getY() < thickness )       {
                    pixel.setRed(0);
                    pixel.setGreen(0); 
                    pixel.setBlue(0);
                                                            }                                  
        
                                  

                             
                                             }
        return(picture);
                                             }
 

var result = addBorder("duke_blue_devil.png", 10);
print(result);
var result = addBorder("palm-and-beach.png",15);
print(result);
var result = addBorder("smallhands.png",25);
print(result);
var result = addBorder("eastereggs.jpg",35);
print(result);

I didn't realize this, but from one of the test questions, it seemed that part of this question wanted us to enter thickness as an input variable from the results, something that could be input when the image is selected. So I changed that, that was also pretty easy, quicker than I thought. I thought that I might have to set up a line where var thickness = x, but I guess I didn't have to do that.

...

416

I have work later today, it's really early in the morning, around 1 AM. I spent most of yesterday sleeping, I went grocery shopping, and I went out to eat, but those were the limits of my errands running.

I want to work on my classes at least until 8 AM, go back to sleep, and leave for work at 5 PM. I'm finally done with Week 2, and I really want to get Week 3 done this week, at this point, I should be on Week 4.

Man, I'm really tempted to play a computer game right now. I have to get this course work done. I really do.

...

417

I deleted my OK Cupid account. I'm irritated with how useless it turned out to be. I'm only on Bumble, and I think I'm going to delete my dating profile on Facebook.

Honestly. I'm actually kind of glad to get rid of it. For as long as I had it, it just didn't really result in anything.

I would think that, they would have some kind of better matching algorithm, but, they don't, so, I hardly got matched with any dates.

There's always this or that advice, to change this or change that, or take this approach, or take that approach, but, maybe they should just design a better matching algorithm and match me with someone who is actually interested in dating me.

I did end up deleting my dating profile on Facebook as well, also, useless. I'm just on Bumble, but Bumble has been useless too.

I took kind of a nice shower right now. Long. I shaved my head. Nice. but I nearly slipped, so I scrubbed my bathtub.

I have overtime tonight, the amount of overtime that I've been able to sign up for has gone back to what it used to be earlier this year, and the end of last year. I'm kind of excited about it.

...

418

I've had an allergic reaction to something, I broke out in hives, but I have no idea what it could have been.

one possibility is that it was something I ate recently, the other, is that it might be a soap that I've been using.

Other than that: I wouldn't know what I had an allergic reaction to, and it's just the skin irritation of hives, but I remember someone telling me that a first allergic reaction is usually mild.

I haven't eaten anything that I normally don't eat, but I know that, sometimes people develop allergies to foods that they're used to later in life.

I'm hoping that it an allergic reaction to the soap I was using, because I just used the last bar, and I'm back to the soap I always use.

Shrimp. I ate shrimp, I've never had an allergic reaction to shrimp before, and I have no idea why I would develop an allergy to it.

I'm really hoping that it was the soap, since I enjoy eating shrimp. 

I don't think I had crab.

I completed a portion of the course work, and now I'm going to go to sleep. I did get something done.

I still occasionally come across some of my old blog posts, and they have pictures of boob ladies, and I take time to remove the photographs of the boob ladies.

...

419

The skin rash has more or less gone away. I used a whole bar of soap between the two showers I took today, even though my skin got really ashy afterward, I sweat so much it becomes not ashy after a few minutes.

And I'm not sure if it was an allergic reaction that caused the rash, or clogged pores.

...

420

Sometimes 
I struggle to feel 
happy.
Jocularity. Is. 
Semi-permanent makeup.

September. I have to take time this week to terminate my mailbox rental. I can do it tomorrow. This isn't procrastination, tomorrow is genuinely a better day. I might just do it today anyway.

...

421

It's hot right now. My apartment is noticeably hotter than it is outside. I have the balcony window open, and the fan on.

I don't know if I wrote about this, but on the 22nd of August, I accidentally locked my keys in my car, and this was just a few minutes before I was supposed to start work, so I called a locksmith, and scheduled an appointment to get my keys out of my car. 

I left my car and keys at my work parking lot, and worked until lunch, called the locksmith, and he stopped by my work during my lunch break, he had an interesting way of getting my keys out of my car.

I thought that he was going to use a shim to unlock my door through my window, but he did it some other way that I wasn't expecting, he pried open the door using some kind of inflatable balloon, and then slid a hanger through the door gasket to pull my door handle open.

I thought it was going to be 50 bucks, but he ended up charging 80, I left him a 20 dollar tip again, but I know this: I better not fucking do that again. 100 bucks.

I feel like I need to cycle through my clothes more methodically, because I feel like I'm wearing the same outfit more often that I should, or, wearing the same set of outfits more often than I should.

I did buy replacement shirts for the ones that were damaged by whatever cleaner or detergent I used on them.

I was also going to buy more pants, but, the price went up by 10 dollars per pair.

...

422

I don't have any connections on Facebook or Instagram or Twitter, so I really don't have too many ways to waste time.

and yet for some reason I'm always short on time. I sleep too much. At least, I think I do.
It might be that I sleep an appropriate amount of time. but I don't know.

Today is Saturday, September 4th. I spent some time working on my coding classes, and then cleaning up my blog. I spent some time uploading old photographs to my blog, and to my social media profiles.

Should I file another copyright soon? Or should I just leave that whole thing on the side for now? I'm not sure how much filing copyrights has really done for me, if anything. Not really sure. I guess these things become part of the things that I own, and maybe, that's cool enough.

I don't remember what else I have that I can copyright?

I really can't believe how many spam emails I get. Sometime I think about just replying and telling them to stop emailing me, even though I kind of know that these are addresses that are outbound only. Super annoying.

These last few coding assignments were kind of cool, some were simple, just changing colors of a square using a color selector, and drawing squares on top of the square using a slider, and another assignment was to create a drawing and painting app. This most recent assignment was a simple image upload app, and it was actually kind of quick and easy to make. It took me about as long as the suggested expected completion time, and I'm actually kind of happy that it only took me as long as that to complete it.

Fucking Spam emails. Annoying shit. There are two types of Spam emails, real Spam emails, and emails that I'm just not really interested in looking at, because whoever is sending them sends them too frequently. This second type of Spam emails can sometimes be important, but it's still spam, so I mark them as spam, but I do sometimes kind of look at them and look out for them, but I have to keep them out of my inbox, otherwise my inbox becomes a nightmare.

I realize that I just want to deal with less non-critical things. If it's not actually important, I really just don't even want to deal with it.

One thing: newsletters. They're useful, and I want to read them from time to time, but honestly, I get way too many of them, even Robinhood Snacks, which I consider one of the more important non-critical emails that I get regularly, I'm more often deleting than reading.

The real bullshit Spam emails, though, I'm responding with: remove delete unsubscribe mark as spam. Like really, spam guys, my penis is as thick and as long as it gets: my penis couldn't possibly get any thicker and longer, so I don't need your secret penis thickening and elongating concoction.

...

423

For whatever reason I slept the entire block of time from when I got home after work, to when I left for work. I'm usually up for a few hours and I get a few tasks done. Not today, I just slept.

...

424

I'm so tired. I've been asleep since 7:30 AM. Right now it is 9:30 PM.

On Friday, slightly before midnight, I went to Shell Shack and had dinner, I went to 7-11 and had 4 hotdogs before I went, but I ate a ton of food at Shell Shack anyway.

I've been so tired lately. On possible source of the tiredness is that I've changed my diet somewhat. More carbs and less protein. I've been eating more clam chowder. With the heat in Texas, I can leave a can of clam chowder in my car, and it's hot enough to eat when I eat it. It's almost like it has been cooked, and clam chowder is something that's easy to keep on hand and store: I can just leave it in my car, and not worry about it going bad or anything, it's canned.

Fuck. I've accomplished almost nothing as far as this most recent project in the online course goes. This is terrible.

The assignment is basically to create a function that takes an image, and converts the image from a colored image, into a grayscale image.

This assignment should be easy, or, if not easy, at least something familiar, and it is familiar. I've has assignments before where I took an image, and increased or decreased the Red, Green, or Blue values in the image, and this grayscale assignment is essentially the same thing.

The course discussion forums don't seem to have much on this issue. 

I might be close to figuring this out. Actually.

This is a nightmare. I'm trying to figure out where all my time goes. So I work about 60 hours a week, but then, what about the rest of my time? Where does it all go? Why didn't I study very much this week? Why am I so tired? Nightmare. Figure it out.

Caffeine, it's kind of like a sleep credit card. I pay back any sleep I skip now, with additional sleep interest later.

...

425

I didn't fall asleep until around noon.

...

426

I'm tired like I never thought could possibly be possible.

I don't know. Maybe I have too much on my plate right now.

Maybe I need to feel exhausted to calm down.

I've been frustrated and anxious lately, and maybe I should think of being completely exhausted as a nice change.

For some reason. I think in terms of shifting gears.

On Wednesday I came home from work, and I couldn't fall asleep.

...

427

I feel bloated. What did I eat today? 5 hot dogs over at seven eleven, well, it was really 2 chicken rollers and 3 cheeseburger rollers.

The cashier didn't apply the appropriate discounts, and I was somewhat irritated by that at the time, but figured I'd just let it go.

...

428

Jeeze. I Struggled with that thing long enough. Fuck it! I just looked up the correct answer.

I'm tired. I was hoping to spend most of my awake time studying for the coding / programming exam, but I'm really just tired.

I don't want to risk what I have, for something I could have. 

and what I mean by this is that, I don't want to put my current job at risk, by transferring all my energy into this new. thing that I'm doing.

what I mean is. I don't want to put all my energy into the coding, and programming stuff, and then be too tired for my job at the warehouse.

but I'm on a really tight deadline.

...

429

There just aren't as many distractions in my life as there used to be, and I don't know if this is a good thing, or something to be sad about. I really don't browse dating apps or social media apps. I still watch YouTube videos and documentaries that aren't entirely useful, but that I find entertaining or interesting. I've even removed the quick start buttons for computer games from the task bar on my computer.

I have less than 1 month to be ready for my for my entrance exam for the Academy.

I got an oil change for my car. It seemed like a long stretch since my last oil change, but full synthetic oil changes are only needed every 8000 miles, so I was actually right on time. My last oil change was at 20700 and this one was at 28060.

I got an oil change for my car, I would have had my tires changed too, but they seem to have plenty of tread, so, I'm really not going to waste the money. Even though I'm kind of a cheapskate, or, maybe I've become kind of a cheapskate, one thing that I've been spending too much money on is food.

For now, I won't worry too much about it, but I will keep in mind not to spend too much money on food.

I finally got my project to upload an image. Small victories.

Here is one thing that I've noticed: it's possible to set the dimensions of a canvas in CSS or HTML. For some reason I decided to set the dimensions in HTML, and when I uploaded the image, the canvas stretched to fit the image, when the dimensions of the canvas are set in CSS, it seems the image is stretched to fit the canvas.

Most of the other student projects that I'm taking guidance from set the dimensions of the canvas in CSS, but I think I'm going to keep the canvas dimensions set in HTML because I prefer that the image retain its, I guess, dimensional integrity.

Right now, for food, I'll just stick to the 7-Eleven grill items. Fast food, buffet food, and restaurants will cost too much

I was able to get the Reset Image button to work. Second small victory.

you are
too damn fine
so for the good of
myself and for
the good of mankind
i'm going to eat your
i'm going to 
i'm going to eat your
you know
well yeah that's what
i'm going to do

I few days ago I received a marketing email from the company that <text removed> works for, and it kind of irritated me more than I thought that it would. I requested to be removed from the emailing list a while ago, and I also tried to delete my account with her company, but, it didn't seem like that option was easily available. I don't know how I really feel about that whole thing. I don't know if it's something I want to forget, or something that I just don't want to think about.

...

430

I was kind of intimidated by how sophisticated 
some of the student projects are.
I'm so fucking behind.
I'm hoping for overtime, but I know that taking 
overtime is just going to make it harder to catch up.

I had 2 days off and I don't really feel like I 
got a whole ton of stuff done.

The work day is almost over. It isn't clear 
to me if there is going to be overtime this week or what.

What do I really want?
var image = null;
image = null;

I'm creating a kind of Frankenstein's monster out of different student projects. Two different student's had vastly different approaches for creating color filters. One student used two different functions  to create a grayscale image filter, and another used a single, longer function to do the same thing.

I managed to do it. This is another small victory. In this case, it was adapting a red filter to my image filter project.

One issue is that some functions take a while to execute, I thought it wasn't working and move on to something else, and left it alone. When I came back to it I noticed the code had successfully executed.

No overtime. Anything that comes in would be kind of last minute, but I'd still sign up for it.

One issue with this new schedule is that I get home before people start leaving for work, so, sometimes there's nowhere to park at my apartment complex.

...

431

I have to watch it. Like. Money-wise. Overtime dropped in and I took it. Still, I have to be careful with how I spend my money. Mostly, it's food.

Gas station and cafeteria food is expensive, and not totally fabulous.

I signed up for overtime even though I know I'm really behind on studying for the Academy.

Maybe I'll get it done on time.

What to do? I just don't get a hell of a lot done in my spare time. Or. At least I don't think that I do. I think that I sleep too much.

I get off work at 4:30 AM, I get something to eat, I get home at 5:30 AM, I sleep until 1:30 PM, but sometimes I sleep right up until 1 hour before work.

I used to buy groceries right before getting home, but the grocery store isn't open at 5:00 AM, so I'm limited to eating 7-Eleven food. I really can't buy groceries there. I usually don't want to stop before work. Man. I have to get it together. Fast.

I have work tonight, an overtime shift, let's see. I'm eating. I have to study. Tomorrow too during my day off. I have to try not to sleep so much.

...

432

I'll go grocery shopping before work today.

One thing about the classes is this: I'm going to move on from one section to another, whether or not I have a deep and total understanding of the course material, and come back to it once everything is completed and I feel I need to brush up on specific areas.

I think that one of the pieces of advice from some of the videos that  watched was. Well, she essentially said: don't become a Philosopher about one particular study area or another. Just soak up as much as you can, and move on, sometimes it will make sense later, in the context of something else that you're studying.

I think about how, sometimes, you have to get things done no matter how long they take, otherwise they never get done, and sometimes you have to get as much done as you can, and then move on, and, I think, sometimes you need to balance the two approaches when appropriate.

So, I went grocery shopping. Clam chowder and soda, and maybe I shouldn't just cut back on how much I spend on food, but also how much food I eat in total. When I think about the days where I overslept, It was usually days I ate fabulous meals.

Honestly, I actually really like canned foods like clam chowder, corned beef, corned beef hash, and a bunch of other preserved foods. Anchovies and sardines.

Would you rather have regular sex in the backseat of a cyber truck? Or cyber sex in the backseat of a regular truck?

I think that if the Kuiper Systems lawsuit finds fault with NASA and Space X, the scandal should be called Elon Gate.

It's not the size of the boat that matters, what matters is the size of your dick.

...

433

I'm hungry right now. I don't want to spend any money on fast food, but I'm hungry, but I'm not sure if I'm really super hungry, and I might be able to satisfy myself with something from the gas station.

I went to 7-Eleven to get something to eat. They have a burrito promotion going on, but the guy at the register rung me up in a way that didn't process the burrito promotion.

I confronted him about this and showed him the signage, showing that it was still active until November 2nd.

He said: "Well, I can't just make them 3 dollars."

So I replied: "I also can't let you overcharge me, so, I'm leaving these here."

I drove down the street to a different 7-Eleven where the discounts went through. I really just wanted to pay for it, knowing that it will just end up in the trash anyway, but, this has happened like 4 or 5 times already, and at some point it has to stop, and if I have to make a point about it in a way that's unpleasant, then, I guess that's just the way it goes.

Some people are going 
To try to take advantage of you.
People will try to take advantage
Of you every chance they get,

And it probably won't ever stop.
Sometimes, Kenneth, you have to
Push back, just like you did, and
Sometimes you have to walk away,
Just like you did. 

Walking away is
Sometimes the only 
thing you can
Do. Sometimes you 
won't be able
To come to terms with 
another person,
And sometimes that's 
just the way it is.

I want to say that I shouldn't be so angry over a dollar, but, this has happened 4 or 5 times already. It's annoying.

I just have to stick to buying groceries, and eating canned soup.

I'm resentful about how people mistreat me, or try to mistreat me, and try to take advantage of me.

This whole thing makes me want to eat ramen noodles for a year. If someone doesn't want my burrito money, then, someone doesn't need to get it.

I really think that I am just going to cut back on my food spending for now, and spending in general. I'm annoyed by that whole burrito incident.

I was editing my blog, and I saw posts from April of this year. It feels like forever ago, but it was just 5 months ago. It wasn't easy working at the Book Factory, I don't think that I would have ever thought about transferring out of the Book Factory, but those two month where there were cuts in overtime, or, there was kind of an overtime drought, kind of caused me to explore other options and other possibilities.

These past few weeks were my spending has been kind of elevated, I've been spending more on going out to eat, and just not being super careful about how I spend my money, I think the only thing I bought for myself was a box of shirts, even though I definitely do not need more shirts.

I think that the whole "Burrito Incident" put me in kind of a state of panic. I mentioned several times that this wasn't the first time that this thing has happened, this is just the first time that I decided that I wouldn't put up with it any more. I really am going to cut back on my spending. I feel like sometimes people can be kind of aggressive in trying to get your money, and the only solution is being aggressive in holding on to it, and you really should hold onto your money, once it's gone, you have nothing to fall back on.

Thinking back to my time at the Book Factory, when I was working a lot of overtime, I also didn't really have much time to explore other options, within the company, or outside of the company, or whatever. Working nights, plus working lots of overtime doesn't leave much time for spending money. I made a pretty decent amount of money during the time I worked there, and I am really happy about that. Working at the Book Factory wasn't really easy, it really was kind of a challenge.

I think that some people. Sometimes you come across people who. Really are characterized by. Something like. A constant state of negative emotions. Really. Like. I guess you can listen to what they have to say, but don't listen too much, because it will bring you down. I've made simple changes like. Removing news articles. Modifying my news feed to remove any news articles they irritate me, or get me going, or make me angry, or make me sad or depressed. Why would I do that? Well, I don't see any reason to make people rich for making me unhappy. Really. Like. Fuck that.

Honestly, though, I'm optimistic about the future, but I'm also filled with quite a bit of fear and uncertainty as well. The fact that I was being over charged on multiple occasions scares me. Either, the businesses are hurting for money, and fucking people over is their only solution, or, maybe I'm being targeted. I have to prepare for. Something. I don't know what. Stockpile money I guess. Let's say, everything turns out to be rosy, well, then I just have extra money, and less to worry about. What else? Well, when I was looking at my posts from 5 months ago, I saw that I posted screenshots of my Robinhood account balance. It was in the 24000 range, now it's in the 34000 range. I'm happy that I've been able to sock away that much money in the last 5 months, but I'm also feeling that, this is partly due to the fact I just haven't felt safe or secure for a while. Saving and investing money isn't some kind of coping mechanism for feeling insecure, and, I also don't think that saving and investing money is a comfort activity for when I feel insecure, what I think is that it's the most logical thing to do when I don't feel secure. When I feel insecure about the future, or uncertain about the future.

There is this idea that, you should always be in survival mode, and maybe that's really how life actually is, life is always a struggle for survival, and it's never easy, and uncertainty is how things always are, and you really always have to be prepared. I wonder where I'll end the year at. I am afraid. There's this whole. Controversy over the budget, and infrastructure bill, and stimulus package, and the debt ceiling, and, inflation, and so many other things.

Just. Be smart I guess.

...

434

So I bought groceries. I spent 51 bucks, mostly cans of clam chowder, a few snacks to eat then and there at the grocery store, cookies and crackers, and several bottles of diet soda.

I cleaned out some of the things that I wanted to collect, but really don't need, mostly empty bottles of whiskey, they look nice, and they are well made, and interesting, but they are empty, and aren't really useful. There are some, like, trinkets and mementos that I have, and, I want to keep them, but, part of me thinks that they aren't useful in any way, but sometimes there are things that I find useless at first, but then later, find that they are actually quite useful, or useful for something eventually.

I'm going to head to sleep right now. I have work later.

It was strange. I felt pretty well rested when I got up around four in the afternoon.

One thing about buying groceries is that, I have to walk up a flight of concrete stairs to get them in my apartment. Thirty-six cans of soup is actually quite bulky and heavy.

I might have to buy smaller amounts at a time, but I really feel like I eat a lot.

...

435

I feel like eating something, but I'm not hungry.

I played on the computer briefly, and then listened to a documentary on the ancient Assyrians.

I want to go to the buffet, but I'm not hungry. My stomach feels kind of off, and at first I wasnt sure why, and then I remembered that I put a ton of hot sauce in my clam chowder.

...

395

I'm taking a few online classes and I'm trying to think about how to get this all done on time. How to fit it all into my schedule, doing a small amount each day.

The only internet connection I have at home is mobile hotspot tethering through my phone, and it's not a lot of data. But I am ending this month with quite a bit left over. Almost 30 percent of my hotspot allocation unused.

Finally some overtime. Next week I signed up for the maximum amount allowed, and this is where juggling classes and overtime is going to put me in a situation where I need to be economical with my time.

This basically means not delivering DoorDash orders for the time being.

...

436

I have to think. Just wait. don't over-worry about things don't over think things. don't feel that you are being left behind, and don't feel envious. Don't feel jealous. Just focus on yourself.

I bought pipe tobacco, but I really got jacked on this one, it was an eight ounce bag, rather than the usual sixteen ounces that I buy.

Fool me once, shame on me, and don't think you'll fool me twice, because I might just stop shopping there. I'm irritated. I paid the sixteen ounce price for an eight ounce bag. I should be buying my pipe tobacco online anyway, but I should also actually be quitting. I really shouldn't be smoking anymore. I really don't want to be at a point where my body is telling me to stop smoking.

I was sent home a little early the other day because I was approaching 60 hours for the week. I had trouble finding parking when I got home. There was one spot in the visitor parking area that was available. Even though I'm a resident, I took the precaution of registering for a visitor parking pass anyway.

I'm thinking about deleting my Bumble account. It hasn't been very useful. It fact, I found the lack of activity more aggravating than any resulting fun stuff, because really, not a single fun thing has resulted from it.

What I think is this: if you have an easy time getting dates outside of dating apps, you'll have an easy time getting dates in the dating apps, but if that's the case, why bother with dating apps. 

Even though Bumble had a different format, a different approach, I think that women, even women in Bumble, expect to be pursued.

...

437

I normally cash out my credit card points as soon as I get them, but I may consider holding on to them for a while until there is a good offer. I was counting on a dining bonus, but there isn't one this month.

I've been coming across quit a few dimes lately.

After tomorrow, I'll have 2 days off. Unless overtime pops up for October 7th. I hoping something pops up, but I'm also hoping nothing pops up, I want the overtime money, but I also need to study.

I need to figure out if I'm able to use my own computer for the entrance exam for the academy, as well as to submit the coding project.

...

438

Sometimes there are way too many coincidences than there should be. One just happened right now while I was working on my budget and finances spreadsheet.

I missed a UPS delivery. I didn't order anything, so I'm wondering what this is.

I'm almost worried about what it could possibly be. Maybe it's something good, but maybe it's something evil, or maybe I shouldn't over think this whole thing. I have no idea. Maybe it was a mistake on the part of the delivery guy. I have no idea.

So this package might not even be mine, but I did call UPS about the issue, and they said it was addressed to my apartment, so I can accept delivery of the package, so long as I have identification showing my address.

There is something slightly odd about this, but I told the customer service representative that I would return the package if it clearly turned out not to be mine, but, I guess I'll figure this out later.

As for the package, whatever it was, I didn't open it too much, and left it at the pick up location. I told them it clearly wasn't mine, so they said they would send it back.

It actually scared me. It looked like it was sent by some kind of deranged person.

I uninstalled the Bumble app, but I didn't delete or deactivate my account. Dating apps have been completely useless. Alright. So I snoozed my Bumble account, so it's invisible, and I deleted the app from my phone. I don't know. I don't want to be cynical about online dating, but it just hasn't really worked for me. I want to delete Bumble completely, and at the same time, I really don't, I paid for the lifetime membership, but, I also haven't had any responses in over six months. I really feel like I keep getting fucked out of my money.

Most dating advice centers on the idea that guys have to understand the games that women play, and the tests that women put guys through in order to be successful at dating, and that this has to do with mate selection, and producing offspring with the best genes, and maybe I'm thinking that, maybe it's just better for me to stay out of the gene pool, but I also think that if dating a particular woman involves games and tests, then, being in a relationship with that particular woman will just involve additional games and tests, and if it was hard during the dating stage, it won't be any easier during the relationship.

And, at the same time, I have to be selective about who I get involved with as well, and it's probably better that I don't get involved with someone who is going to aggravate me, not just in a dating or romantic setting, but, just in general. There are people that you come across, or, intersect with, that you really do just have to cut out, or avoid, or, move on from.

I don't want to think that I'm always right about things, maybe my outlook about dating is incorrect, and maybe I'll come around to seeing things differently, but for now, I'm just not seeing how the whole process is actually worth it.

...

439

What is there for me to say? Well, for next week, my plan is to work on the coding project, and the following week, prepare for, and take the coding exam. Everything else is completed, it all falls on me now. I used my vacation in a way that gives me four days off each week for the next two weeks, and this is if I don't take any overtime, or get assigned any overtime.

I'm kind of, feeling down about, dating and stuff. I just read an piece in the New Yorker from the Daily Shouts series, and it kind of ticked me off, or, rubbed me the wrong way, but, ultimately, the point of the piece was kind of right, it's more or less the attitude that you have about dating that determines your success when it comes to dating. And. That's something I often find true in a lot of things, but I also come across a lot of people with shitty attitudes that seem to get what they want in life as well. Maybe there's no correlation between attitude and success.

Maybe I just kind of have a lot of things going on right now, and, maybe, dating is the last thing I should be thinking of right now. Thinking about dating, and, thinking about my failures and setbacks really puts me in a bad state of mind. Immediately after reading the piece about dating in the New Yorker, I blocked the New Yorker from my news feed. I'm going to go ahead and take it's advice, so to speak, but, I really don't need to read anything else that's going to set me off again. I almost feel like disconnecting from the Google News Feed entirely. This would basically just leave me the news feeds in Robinhood, Interactive Brokers, and Fidelity, as well as the internal corporate news from work.

My tire pressure was low. I went to three gas stations before I found an air pump that was operational. Sometimes I think about how I can be more self-reliant, but, how the fuck do I fill my tires without a gas station? It's almost like asking how would I fill my gas tank without a gas station.

...

440

Yeah. I kind of compulsively sign up for overtime.

But after I get off work, I'll have the next day off. I'll get started on finishing off my application and then I'll know. Or I'll have an idea how to approach next week.

When I reflect on social interactions that didn't go well I often wonder:

Was I rude? Or does the other person have an attitude?

And

Do I have an attitude? Or was the other person rude.

I posted a tweet comparing cryptocurrency to wampum, but I realize that there's another side to this comparison.

Even though I might not think that cryptocurrency is particularly useful in a way that I don't think that wampum is particularly useful, the Native Americans probably didn't find that gold and silver were particularly useful, and they probably thought paper money was some kind of bullshit form of wampum.

And, even though people might compare cryptocurrency to tulip mania, one thing I want to point out is that the tulip business is still a good business to be in.

Man. I am actually tired. The other day, my day off, I think that I slept the entire day, except when I went out to eat. I went to the Social House, and I honestly think I spent too much money, and I don't know why I do that. The bartender's name, of all things, is. Well. You. Would. Not. Believe. 

I don't know. Maybe I should stop going there. I don't know. Or maybe I should try not to get too excited.

Well. I just keep getting behind. I just had no energy the other day, and, I'm just not sure if it's too late or not to catch up. I don't want to seem apathetic or indifferent about my candidacy, but, it's possible that I didn't approach the process the right way.
I don't know. Sometimes miracles happen. When I think about how to achieve goals I think that there are slow grinds, hard grinds, fast grinds, and just straight up Eureka moments.

...

441

I'm trying to get my thoughts together. Sometimes I feel like I lag behind, or, sometimes I feel like I procrastinate, but at the same time:

it's

not like I have only one fucking thing on my plate right now.

I am procrastinating, but it's not like I only have one fucking thing on my fucking plate right now.

so

what am I thinking about right now?

...

442

I had a tough morning after getting off work. No joke. I went to 7-Eleven, like I almost always do, and got breakfast.

I bought 2 burritos, and then I went back in to buy more food, but my transaction was declined. I called the bank and they said that there wasn't any attempt to process the transaction by the merchant, meaning that the bank didn't decline the transaction, the merchant did, so I figured: maybe the merchant doesn't want my money. I didn't feel bad, though, because I only buy promotional items, and they probably lose money when I shop there. Whatever, everyone has to cut there losses at some point.

Anyway, when I got in my car, it wouldn't start, my battery died, and, I started to get paranoid because bad luck usually limits itself to one fucking bad luck item per day. Since I drive a manual, I figured I could push-start, but I forgot how to do that.

Nightmare. Really. Anyway. I didn't do anything else for the day. I did notice that the soda fountains are working again. I guess the Russians are going easy on us and not disrupting the fountain drink supply as much, but Nikita Khrushchev was a huge Pepsi fan, so they should give us a break in his honor!

Two more hours of my shift left. What am i thinking about? Ear plugs. The noise levels in an industrial setting can be annoying.

I went to QuikTrip this morning instead of 7-Eleven. They actually have some kind of new hotdog that's pretty good.

Sometimes I wonder if the challenges I face sometimes work in my favor. The incident at 7-Eleven the other morning kind of pissed me off, but maybe I needed to try something else for breakfast anyway.

...

441

I'm trying to get my thoughts together. Sometimes I feel like I lag behind, or, sometimes I feel like I procrastinate, but at the same time:

it's
not like I have only one fucking thing on my plate right now.
I am procrastinating, but it's not like I only have one fucking thing on my fucking plate right now.

so
what am I thinking about right now?

...

442

this is where donuts used to be
where the police would come for
morning brew and drink coffee and
enjoy bread soaked in sugar.

...

443

I'm irritated. I don't understand any of this shit, and I'm fucking furious.
I still have 2 days. But I already feel like going through, step by step, how I fucked it all up.
I don't understand any of it, and I don't know what the fuck I'm doing.

I keep thinking that this should be easy, that it's all here, and that I just have to put it all together. It is kind of coming together. A little bit, but this isn't like, a cake recipe, exactly.

One thing I want to ask the universe is: why are so many things taught in a way that I can't even fucking understand?

There's this idea in computing that instructions have to be converted into machine code, or the computer won't understand what the fuck you're trying to tell it, and I think that the instructional videos just don't convert instructions into Kenneth code.

...

444

So here it is. Today is the 21st. Tomorrow is the last day to turn in my project, and take the entrance exam. Here is the thing: I hardly understand what I'm doing, I can barely understand what I'm being asked, and, I don't have much time to get up to speed on a lot of this.

I want to think about where I went wrong in this whole process. Well. It's possible that taking too much overtime didn't leave me with enough time to work on the classes, but I want to say that's not true: I had enough time, but I just never had enough energy left over to do anything other than eat and sleep.

...

445

This is the strangest thing ever, I wanted to eat at a restaurant, and I was thinking of this exact restaurant, but I didn't know the name or the location, I only remember that I came here once to pick up food for either UberEATS or DoorDash.

I figured I would drive around and that I would eventually find it, and if I didn't, I would just eat somewhere else.

Well, I'm here and there's a decoration that seems like it was meant specifically for me to see.

...

445

This is the strangest thing ever, I wanted to eat at a restaurant, and I was thinking of this exact restaurant, but I didn't know the name or the location, I only remember that I came here once to pick up food for either UberEATS or DoorDash.

I figured I would drive around and that I would eventually find it, and if I didn't, I would just eat somewhere else.

Well, I'm here and there's a decoration that seems like it was meant specifically for me to see.


...

446

Well, I completed my application. I turned in my project, and I took my exam. Really. This isn't going to happen, at least not this time around.

I don't really know. I'm not unhappy or anything.

To me. This is really just how things go sometimes.

I was keeping my work schedule as close to 60 hours per week as I could. I figured that I would free up time by not doing food deliveries.

that approach wasn't really effective, not only did I not do any food deliveries, but I more or less just slept through all of my free time,

and, during this week off, I slept most of this time. Most of this little mini-vacation of mine I spent sleeping.

I was motivated at the beginning, but I struggled hard, and I found it discouraging when I would set aside 2 hours or so to study, and basically accomplish nothing.

I would try skipping around, and I would have essentially the same issues after skipping around.

I would spend 2 hours on some other area or course material that I skipped to, and make absolutely no progress for 2 hours.

I guess I'll try this again and reapply next year. I mean, I didn't get a rejection letter or anything, but, I'm really not optimistic about being selected.

I'm not going to blame my 60 hour work weeks on my inability to study. I'm going to accept 60 work weeks as just one of the limitations I have on doing other things or learning other things, and that's that. Let's say that my life were different, let's say that I had kids or I had a family, I wouldn't blame having kids or having a family on my inability to learn new things. I would accept those circumstances as, you know, part of my life.

I really don't know. Where to go from here. I really don't. I'm going to try this again. and reapply during the next application period. Maybe the coursera subscription is covered by amazon's career choice program. i don't really know. i'll look into it.

I just don't really see any options as far as, pursuing another line of work. This is actually. a real nightmare.

...

447

Today I'm back at work after taking about 6 days off. I'm hoping to log quite a bit of overtime this week, although I'm not super optimistic, considering that the last time this happened, I didn't really get any.

The year is almost over. My 401(k) contributions are at twenty percent until the end of the year. I was going to start contributing to my IRA this year with the few months that are left, but I realized that I should be able to accomplish a similar effect by increasing my 401(k) contributions.

I've been dining out too much, and spending too much money on gas station food, and I need to cut that down.

...

448

I'm trying to think. Yeah, I've been spending too much money this month and last month. I don't even know why.

I think that part of my loose fisted behavior stems from not wanting to worry about every last dime like I usually do considering that this is the last month to meet the deadline for turning in the ATA application, but considering how things went, maybe that wasn't the best idea.

I don't know why I was so tired. I slept nearly the entire 6 day block of time off that I had. The only time I have any kind of energy at all is when I'm at work. Or, maybe delivering food.

I don't know. Even though I think that it would be nice to be a software developer, I think about, like, the Greeks, and what things would have been like if Herodotus was more like Pythagoras, or if Archimedes was more like Homer, or if Aristotle was more like Sophocles, or Aesop was more like Euclid.

We can't all be mathematicians and engineers, and maybe we don't need a whole ton of one type of person or another or whole ton of people concentrated in this or that discipline.

I just don't know what options I have for moving up the food chain.

...

449

I was able to get full overtime this week, which was kind of nice. I could have done that last week too, but I took vacation and paid time off for my exam, but with the way things went, I may as well have just worked and turned in what I turned in anyway.
I slept nearly the entire six days that I was off.

I've been playing Empire: Total War, and I'm about to conquer the known world, but not because I wanted to, but because other countries declare war on me out of nowhere, and I have to beat the shit out of them to negotiate a peace treaty.

There are only 3 major countries left, and I think I'll just keep playing, and see If I can isolate each one into a single land-locked region. 

I'm playing as Spain. I usually play as the Netherlands, but there are a few trade offs that make Spain an attractive alternative.

One is that the Capitol Region has more ports for Spain than the Netherlands, so thr maximum trading capacity is higher. It doesn't entirely matter early in the game.

I keep reading about supply shortages. It's usually attributed to supply chain issues, but I usually joke that it's the Russians.

I have been ordering Stolichnaya whenever I'm at the bar, but I don't really drink a ton. I guess that's a good thing, that I don't drink too much.

There is this group of people called Preppers, people who prepare for a total breakdown of civilization. Some people have, like, a decade of canned food.

Canned food is actually somewhat expensive when you consider what you're getting, and most packaged food has kind of a long shelf-life anyway.

editing all these
is more tedious
than you can really ever understand.

...

450

A co-worker from the book factory sent me a text message today. Stock market stuff. 

I'm going to try to participate on the two most recent IPO offerings on the platform: Allbirds and Nerd Wallet.

There are still so many things in my life that I'm unhappy about, or even angry about, or, maybe not things that are in my life right now, but things that have happened, setbacks and failures. Set backs and failures that I'm still upset about.

A lot of things in life are just. Sort of the way things go. You know. Maybe. Maybe there isn't much you can do about them. Some things just go the way they go. You know? and that's just the way it is sometimes, and, this attitude isn't a cop out. It's just the way it is.

I'm thinking about the IPO request. Am I really long term on these positions? I'm I really long term on these positions?

Because if I'm not, then I might as well just stick with the ETFs that I was working with, and leave it at that.

I just don't want to think about the past. Even things that happened. I just don't want to think about it. I want to forget things. Or at least not think about them. I want to forget. I don't want to think about. I don't want to revisit these thoughts.

A co-worker from the book factory sent me a text message today. Stock market stuff. 
I'm going to try to participate on the two most recent IPO offerings on the platform: Allbirds and Nerd Wallet.


There are still so many things in my life that I'm unhappy about, or even angry about, or, maybe not things that are in my life right now, but things that have happened, setbacks and failures. Set backs and failures that I'm still upset about.

A lot of things in life are just. Sort of the way things go. You know. Maybe. Maybe there isn't much you can do about them. Some things just go the way they go. You know? and that's just the way it is sometimes, and, this attitude isn't a cop out. It's just the way it is.

I'm thinking about the IPO request. Am I really long term on these positions? I'm I really long term on these positions?
Because if I'm not, then I might as well just stick with the ETFs that I was working with, and leave it at that.

I just don't want to think about the past. Even things that happened. I just don't want to think about it. I want to forget things. Or at least not think about them. I want to forget. I don't want to think about. I don't want to revisit these thoughts.

When I think about. I don't want to think about. When I remember. I don't want to remember. I wish I could go back and change things. I don't want to remember. I don't want to be reminded. I don't want to think about. I don't want to remember. I don't want to think about. I don't want to remember.
I want to bump up my cash and credit buffer, but by how much?

...

451

I don't see what
you find so remarkably
offensive.
i'll tell you
what you really want to
here.

So my coworker and I debated whether or not a Roth IRA or Traditional IRA makes more sense. Well, I did the math, and my conclusion is that doesn't make much of a difference either way:

Traditional IRA:

=((6000*1.12)*(1.08)^35)*0.88

87434.61202

Roth IRA:

=(6000)*(1.08)^35

88712.06577

Anyway, I'm going to stick contributing to pre-tax retirement accounts for the time being, but there is one thing about Roth accounts: people use the term "tax-free" distributions, and, it honestly bothers me when people aren't really specific with what they mean when they say: "tax-free." Well, it turns out that Roth distributions are not considered taxable income. So it might actually make sense to do both a Roth, and Traditional IRA. For example, you can take out of your Traditional IRA only what you need to stay in the lowest tax bracket, or, below the standard deduction, or whatever, and then take distributions from your Roth, or whatever. So it might make sense to blend them.

Anyway, I'm just going to stick with my original plan, people always say that taxes can change at retirement: in 35 years, taxes are likely to be higher, and that's probably true, however, one, I'm expecting the tax brackets, and the tax rates to increase in the future, and it's also possible that the tax treatment of Roth accounts can change in the future as well. Maybe the tax and spend types say: "fuck it, we're taxing your Roth distributions anyway to fund our Government Largesse Initiative." I honestly don't think that trying to predict what will happen 35 years out makes much sense either in favor of the Traditional IRA, or the Roth IRA.

I was listening to a documentary about the medieval Saharan caravans, and camels that travelled the 4 month round-trip journey would have to be rested for 8 months afterward.
I'm trying to think. I'm going to need new tires soon. I wrote about this before, but I think 30 thousand miles is where it needs to get done, I'm close to 29 thousand miles.

...

452

I haven't really kept up on politics, and today is election day.
I don't think that there's going to be any overtime today. Maybe Wednesday, but I don't know.
I don't have a whole lot to do today. I signed up for the free flu shot at work.
So I have to vote, and, go out and get the flu shot.
I haven't Door Dashed in a long time, so maybe I can do that.

I'm at a restaurant I picked up food from before when I was Door Dashing. Maybe I should Door Dash at some point.
There were times when I tried to work in 2 hours a day to work on the course work, and then try for 8 hours a day on my days off, but that was something I had trouble maintaining.

I tried to leave coding videos on during my commute to and from work, in the hope that I could monetize or capitalize on my commute hours in some way, but, none of the videos I would play were really adapted to that form of, I guess, osmosis kind of learning.
Anyway. So I'm going to turn in whatever I have by the end of the day, no matter what it looks like, and I'm going to take the test before then end of tomorrow no matter how well prepared I am. The goal here is to turn in whatever I have, and complete the application.

Am I being indifferent to my candidacy? I want to say that the answer is no, it's more an issue of it being kind of late in the process to really recover or change trajectory or change course or whatever, and, I more or less am where I am right now. This is the position that am in, and, that's that.

But let's also think for a minute here, going back to July and August, I really had no desire to pursue any kind of career change or career advancement or anything like that. I was more or less content with my tier 1 role at the company, with my 20 hours a week of overtime, and food delivery side hustle, and my growing portfolio of investments, I was content with where I was at, and I still am pretty content with where I'm at now. I think it was just that month or so when there wasn't any overtime that made me feel like I was in a kind of precarious position, that a pay cut can happen whenever the payroll department feels like it's appropriate, but I remember that, even during that month where I wasn't getting much overtime, I was able to sock away 1700 or 1800 dollars, and that's not including my retirement contributions, which I believe have been elevated since the beginning of summer.

I've been on paid vacation, and paid time off since the end of my shift on the 16th, and honestly, I slept most of this time. I had coding and programming videos playing in the background while I rested, but I really just slept nearly this entire time. I don't really think that reducing the amount of overtime I signed up for would have really done anything for me, because, even with all the sleep I had this week, I still feel like sleeping.

I think that maybe the motivation to find a higher paying line of work is mostly from dating and trying to find a girlfriend and all that stuff. I honestly don't know what to really do about the whole dating thing, I'm not sure I really need to do any dating things, and I'm not even sure I'm really interested in doing the whole dating thing. I don't think that I'm inherently apathetic to dating, I think that I just haven't had very much success when it comes to dating, and in my mind, I have to throw in the towel at some point and wash my hands of that whole business. I deleted my Bumble account, even though I was never really planning on doing that, and, even though I paid for a lifetime premium membership. I just have not had any success with online dating, or with dating apps, or with any kind of dating what so ever. The whole business of dating has really just been fruitless for me.

With my Robinhood account, I started to sell of some of the stocks I own in individual companies. I think that I'm only going to do that with my other accounts. It just gets cluttered and difficult to manage. I can accept the fact that options section of my Robinhood portfolio is cluttered, but, when I own individual stocks in my Robinhood portfolio, it starts to become unclear, it starts to become difficult to delineate between the stocks that I'm holding long term, and the stocks that I'm holding as a result of options plays, and the stocks that I'm holding long term and as options plays simultaneously. I'm just going to repurchase these stocks that I sold in my Robinhood account, and buy them again in my Fidelity IRA. I'm going to hold enough stocks in my Robinhood account as a result of options plays, so I really don't think I want I want to keep long terms investments in there too. I'm trying to think about how to elaborate better about the Robinhood situation. Well, I think of it as being two things at once, I have long term holdings in my Robinhood portfolio, which would be my ETFs, and then long term holdings which are individual stocks, and then tactical stock holdings, and options positions that are also tactical, my thinking is that I need to simplify this whole thing so that it's easier to figure out how risky my positions are, or how risky my position is, or, if I'm taking on an excessive level of risk, or whatever. My thinking is that, if  80 percent of my positions are long term, and 20 percent are tactical, I'm at a level or risk that is tolerable to me, but if it's hard for me to figure out where I'm at with respect to this 80/20 breakdown that I want to be at, if I have to figure out which stocks are long term holdings and which stocks are tactical holdings. Now this 80/20 long-term/tactical breakdown only applies to my Robinhood account, I consider everything else, IBKR and Fidelity, long term, so when I take everything together, I think that only about 10 percent of all of my investments are tactical investments. Or, maybe I should refer to them as tactical positions, rather than tactical investments.

Part of the reason I haven't gotten into cryptocurrency is that I feel that I'm already at an elevated level of risk with my options plays, and, I really don't want to double up on my levels of risk. So for now I'm just going to continue not getting involved in cryptocurrency.

Let's think of something for a minute here, when I think of someone who does something high risk, I think of Elon Musk, and the last time I read about Tesla, I think Tesla had holdings of about 3 billion in cryptocurrency, but this is out of a market cap of about 900 billion, meaning that the value of Tesla's cryptocurrency holdings aren't even 1 percent of the total value of Tesla itself. It's one third of 1 percent.

So if I were to take on exactly 1 Elon Musk Unit level of risk, I would basically be holding 150 dollars worth of bitcoin. Right?

So even if I wanted to rocket past the Moon, all the way to fucking Mars, I would only be doing it with 150 dollars worth of bitcoin.

And when I think about it like that, I mean, yeah, I probably could buy a small amount of cryptocurrency, like 150 or 300 or 450 worth of bitcoin, but honestly, I would rather own an equivalent amount of Coinbase stock. I

...

453

I'm not sure if I should do Door Dash this month or not. I increased my 401(k) contributions to 40%, thinking I would get a ton of overtime, but last week I didn't get any.
I could drop them back down, but I don't want to do that. I have to think.
Even if I did Door Dash, it might not close the gap. I'm trying to think.

I downloaded DoorDash, just in case. I'm really hoping to get overtime at work. I could swear that I've never been able to make sense of DoorDash, but, whatever. I don't think I've ever been able to make very much money by DoorDashing.

I don't know. If I don't get any overtime, I'll just suck it up and DoorDash. I honestly have never been able to make sense of it. One issue is that, I've always DoorDashed during the morning, but, we'll see. I don't want to drop my 401(k) contributions during these last 2 months of 2021.

I did get a sliver of overtime today, less than an hour, but, maybe more will come next week. The issue is that, well, that's pretty much it for this pay period. I have to think. I'm just going to stick with my plan: I'm going to stick with  my elevated 401(k) contributions, and make it up any budget deficit with DoorDashing.

Here is the issue: If I get a lot of overtime, it makes sense for me to sock it away in my 401(k), if I don't get a lot of overtime, then I may face a budget deficit for the month of November.
One possible course of action in the event of a budget deficit is to take the money out of my cash savings, the other possibility is to take the money out of my Robinhood account, and then there is Door Dashing.

I don't want to take any money out of anywhere, and I don't want to reduce my elevated 401(k) contributions, so I really have no other choice but to DoorDash in the event that I don't get any overtime.
I've honestly never been able to make sense of DoorDash, I really haven't. Like I said, though, I'll just suck it up and figure it out.

Fuck it. I dropped my 401(k) contributions from 40% back down to 4%, and here is the reason why. I ended October 2020 with a balance of 2500 in my 401(k), and it's currently at around 9500. So, I did better this year, Well, Obviously. I think that, from time to time, I'll shift gears on my 401(k) contributions. One thing is that: This is money that I really wont see for 30, 35, or 40 years from now. I don't really want to retire sooner than I need to, even if I have money to retire sooner than I need to.

I think that this should solve any budget deficit. I think so. Anyway. I might DoorDash anyway. I'm operating under 2 assumptions, One is that I don't get any overtime for the remainder of the month, this would be odd considering that it's November, but, maybe, who knows.

So assuming that I get no overtime for the remainder of November, will I have a budget deficit?

Don't go overboard
On the retirement crap.
You're right when
You say that you won't see
The money for decades.

Don't lose sight of 
the present by planning
For some distant future.

Of course, putting 40%
Of your paycheck in your
Retirement account is
Better than spending 40%
Of you paycheck on.
I don't know. whatever 
Dumb shit delights 
you these days,
But it can cause many of
The same problems. So.
Just be aware of that.

I'm thinking. I'll just keep it at 4% for now, and the remainder of the year. I'll bumb them back up next year after topping off my IRA and HSA. 

There's a chance that my next paycheck will either have a 40% or 30% contribution. I'm not going to worry too much about that. The final 2 paychecks of the month should be at the reduced rate of 4%.

Let's think about one more thing, my November budget is based on my December expenses. I have to remember that, and also that sometimes it is possible to bleed December income into my November budget since my November budget covers my December expenses, and some of my December income occurs before my December expenses.

I might have to re-think everything, but in the short term, it's possible that everything is going to be fine, and I just don't know it yet, my first choice, in case things aren't fine, would be to bleed the budget months, the second choice would be to take it out of Robinhood, but for me, that's almost the same as the end of the universe. Almost. I'm exaggerating. Obviously.

But this second choice, of taking it out of Robinhood, has two sub-choices, and the preferred sub-choice of the Robinhood-nuclear-option-choice is to let the positions that are already closing the third Friday of November close, and take the money from there, the second sub-choice of this choice is to sell something. No way.

Honestly. I think it will be okay. I'm still operating under the assumption that there won't be any overtime this month.
Let me think? So what's causing the cash crunch/budget deficit? One, I had my retirement contributions set to 40%, I dropped that down to 4%, I also budgeted 250 for cash savings, as distinct from investment savings, and quite a bit in non-essential and non-critical debt reduction. I think that reducing my retirement contributions should be enough.
I guess that settles it for now. I'll worry about it more later on in the month. It's cold, and I'm tired.

...

454

Whenever there's double overtime, I almost never get any. I was looking at my paystubs, and I did actually get two weeks where I logged 60 hours total, but I want to say that this was out of 5 or 6 weeks where double overtime was offered. I guess having a lot of free time can be nice, but it's not like there's much that I can do. It's strange how things work out, when I needed free time to study for the entrance exam, I didn't have any free time, and now that I don't really need the free time, there's no overtime to sign up for.

I have to think about what to do. Going forward. If I should look for a higher paying line of work, or if I should look for a second job, or if maybe I should just take things the way they are for now, and figure it out later. I just feel like: as soon as I get a second job, there's going to be a whole lot of overtime.

Right now. I just have to successfully get through November, then I have to successfully make it to April 15th, 2022. Those are the only two things on my mind right now. Is it possible for me to come up with 10K before April 15th 2022, using just my income, and without taking any money out of my other accounts? Maybe, I don't really know.

I feel like I'm in this universe where I'm more or less stuck where I am. These days off feel like a total waste of time. I have to come up with something else. Food delivery is just not a viable option, and, I really don't think that rideshare driving is either. I mean, I might be able to do those things for fun, but, I don't think that I can do those things for money. I have to think. The main thing is getting to the end of November, and the second thing is getting to the middle of April, and then I can figure out what to do at that point.

...

455

I'm kind of lost.
i'm here i'm there
i'm everywhere and
nowhere all at once
and here you are with
your flowers.

here and there
and here you
are telling me
that you are actually
happy to see me
and that well
you miss me.

...

456

I need to go grocery shopping. I haven't done that in a while. I don't know what I would get. I did go the other day, but just bought enough for one meal, and some drink powders.

I napped in my car. There was something. A Cowboy's game, obviously, going on, and I couldn't figure out how to get home after going out for lunch, so I drove to work instead and napped in my car. I went to the grocery store and bought egg nog, clam chowder, and toothpaste.
I want to say that there was no overtime this week, but, this is actually a new week, so I'd actually be wrong saying that.

Even though I was upset about this. I might make the best of it, and try going somewhere, but where? 
Who knows.

I downloaded Shogun: Total War 2, and I saw there were a few new Total War games out.
I wonder if I should get a new computer.
I don't want to lose sight of my goal, but what was my goal? 


What am I thinking? Well, if I decide to go somewhere, I think it will he a road trip.
I think I'll go in for a tire change tomorrow. Then I think I'll try food delivery on my days off. I have to get back into the swing of logging mileage and expenses.

This might be kind of okay. I remember a co-worker saying that he went on a vacation with his girlfriend to another city, and was able to deliver food during his vacation.
So this might make road trips easier. I wonder where I would end up if I slowly creeped from zone to zone into another state. Would that work?
So tires. Clean my car. And then whatever else.

...

457

I closed out a hell of a lot of positions on Robinhood. I focused first on any positions that I could have a realized gain on, even if closing that position was at a cost greater than the mark.

Then I closed out any losing positions. I honestly don't like taking any realized losses, but I was also kind of sick of having my portfolio as volatile as it was, and there's also the idea that, at some point, you kind of just have to bite the bullet. The first time I ever had to bite the bullet was with Abraxas Petroleum, and it was due to the fact that it stopped trading on the stock and options exchanges. After taking assignment on my Abraxas Petroleum put options, I sold my shares for less than the strike price I was assigned at. I had no choice, I had to bite the bullet on that bitch. I would have preferred to hold the shares and sell covered calls on the assigned shares for the remainder of forever, but, without a timeline for when Abraxas Petroleum would be re-listed on the exchanges it made more sense to me to just take the loss and move on.

I also rotated my entire portfolio yesterday, and, it's nearly the same as it was before, with the with the exception of the options I closed out. So I really just created more taxable income than I needed to.

I'm going to continue trading options, but I'm probably going to try something new.

I was going to get my tires changed yesterday, but Walmart didn't have my tire size.

So my coworker and I debated whether or not a Roth IRA or Traditional IRA makes more sense. Well, I did the math, and my conclusion is that doesn't make much of a difference either way:

Traditional IRA:

=((6000*1.12)*(1.08)^35)*0.88

87434.61202

Roth IRA:

=(6000)*(1.08)^35

88712.06577

Anyway, I'm going to stick contributing to pre-tax retirement accounts for the time being, but there is one thing about Roth accounts: people use the term "tax-free" distributions, and, it honestly bothers me when people aren't really specific with what they mean when they say: "tax-free." Well, it turns out that Roth distributions are not considered taxable income. So it might actually make sense to do both a Roth, and Traditional IRA. For example, you can take out of your Traditional IRA only what you need to stay in the lowest tax bracket, or, below the standard deduction, or whatever, and then take distributions from your Roth, or whatever. So it might make sense to blend them.

Anyway, I'm just going to stick with my original plan, people always say that taxes can change at retirement: in 35 years, taxes are likely to be higher, and that's probably true, however, one, I'm expecting the tax brackets, and the tax rates to increase in the future, and it's also possible that the tax treatment of Roth accounts can change in the future as well. Maybe the tax and spend types say: "fuck it, we're taxing your Roth distributions anyway to fund our Government Largesse Initiative." I honestly don't think that trying to predict what will happen 35 years out makes much sense either in favor of the Traditional IRA, or the Roth IRA.

I was listening to a documentary about the medieval Saharan caravans, and camels that travelled the 4 month round-trip journey would have to be rested for 8 months afterward.
I'm trying to think. I'm going to need new tires soon.I wrote about this before, but I think 30 thousand miles is where it needs to get done, I'm close to 29 thousand miles.

...

458

Fuck. I'm at the gas station. My battery died. Again. I left me car on, without the engine running, and the bitch died on me. I was trying to fix my tire. Dumb ass air pump. It didn't pump air, because, I think, it was completely deflated.
I'm almost afraid that this is where my life takes a turn for the worst.

Anyway. I got a rejection letter from the ATA-SDE program. I wasn't expecting to get in, but, I'm annoyed about it anyway.
I called roadside service for a jump start. This is a nightmare.
What's on my mind? That life is a fucking nightmare, and there's nothing you can really do about it.

I don't have much of a support system or social circle out here, and, like all I have, really, is my money, and I'm always in a state of hating to spend it.

I feel like life is testing me, but why does life do this? I feel like life throws problems at me just to see how I overcome them, or maybe, just to toy with me.
But why am I facing so many challenges at the same time?

On the one hand I want to ask myself what the hell did I do to deserve this, on the other hand, I'm thinking, maybe this all just happens in cycles, and the only thing you can really do is be prepared, and maybe that's where I'm at, it's nothing personal between me and the fuckig universe, maybe this is just the way it goes from time to time.
Fucking shitty. 

People say that, you kind of need to he comfortable asking for help, but they also say you need to try finding the answer out on your own first. Maybe that's where I'm at.
So right now I'm just waiting for the roadside guy.

I think of Matt Damon trying to stay alive on Mars, and I don't really think my situation is quite as challenging. I need to get my car jump started, and, I couldn't figure out how to do that on my own.

There's also Will Smith trying to keep his head above the water in San Francisco as a single father, trying to pursue a career as a stock broker.

I want to say that this is just life and this is just the way it goes.
These challenges I face make me even more fearful about spending money.
I felt this way recently. That there are hard times ahead. Maybe tonight was just a reminder of that.

Even though I think of this as a sign that I need to be careful, I think that I also have to be aware of any possibility of being so frustrated that I start behaving in a way that's self destructive.

I probably need new tires, a new battery, an oil change and a tune-up.
But I think that I'm definitely a little annoyed.

There was something I wanted to look up, but, fuck it I guess. I can't remember what it was. A jacket? My time card? My budget? What? I don't know!

...

459

I had my tires changed, they only had 3 in stock, so I have to go back in on Monday and get the 4th changed.

...

460

So I survived the month of November, from a budgetary perspective anyway, but I'm also actually still alive, so I guess I survived in that sense as well.

...

461

I Door Dashed briefly, and then headed back home. The last drop of was right across the street from where I live.

I ate at the buffet the other day, and my fortune cookie said: "Warning: do not eat your fortune."

...

462

I've been eating ramen these past few days. That fortune cookie warning me not to "eat my fortune" kind of got me. Maybe everything will be alright. At this point, I don't really know.

I'd hate to think that I really have no choice when it comes to Door Dashing, but maybe that's where I'm at.

It's just that it doesn't always seem worth the effort.
I haven't seen that number in about 6 months. Shit. What's the problem? The same fucking thing every week. There's no overtime.
I'm just trying to think about what to do.

When I Door Dashed yesterday, as soon as I left my area, my area became an active delivery zone, this always happens. Waste of gas. I did two deliveries, and then I went home, my last delivery was right across the street from my apartment, so I figured, why not..

I'm eating ramen only. I won't forget what the fortune cookie told me: "Do Not Eat Your Fortune."
I didn't do anything for Thanksgiving.
I'm just trying to think right now. Would I be better of getting a second job or something? What should I do? Should I just enjoy the reduced workload?

What's the sensible thing to do right now with my portfolio? I think it would be to start funding my IRA and HSA for 2021, and I have until April 2022 to complete the process.

I guess it's really going to be ramen for the next few months. I just don't see myself coming up with an extra 10,000 over the next few months, four and a half months, and I just don't see that happening without 60 hour weeks from now until then.

And there just hasn't been much overtime, or, at least, I haven't been getting any.

Sometimes it feels like the universe is trying to level the playing field, but I'm at the bottom of the totem pole, so, of all the people to hold back, why me? I'm trying to advance like everyone else, so, why hold me back?

When it comes to Door Dashing, honestly, using the milage expense method, delivering is either a wash, or a loss.

I have to come up with something else.

I went to the buffet and ate. I didn't eat a ton of food, which was kind of disappointing, I went to Walmart and bought a phone mount and charger, some eggnog and a few boxes of noodles.

I'm starting to wish that I hadn't closed me options and turned my portfolio over. I have to not do that. I wanted to reduce volatility, but it's just as bad as it was before.

I applied for a few positions internally.

I'd hate to admit this, but I feel stuck, I'm not getting any overtime, I can't transfer, really, I'm not really going anywhere with the company, and I don't want to lose my 401(k) match. I don't know how soon I can leave and keep it. My thinking is mid 2022, around the time my lease is up.  

I'm kind of disenchanted with things. This feels like the last few months when I was in Missouri. It felt as though the Universe itself wants to hold me back, or prevent me from advancing.

What do I do next? Where do I go?  
Let's say I try for a different job. What else? Maybe a second job or something?
I don't know, it feels like the harder I try, the harder things get.

I remember the last few weeks in Missouri, it felt like people at work were trying to make things difficult, it started at the hotel, and then, at the warehouse too. I ended up quitting both jobs. It really felt like people were really trying to fuck with me, or make things difficult.

I'm trying to think, my lease is up at the middle of next year, but my utility contract is up at the middle of 2023.
I don't really know what to do. I don't think I have the energy to take on a second full-time job, and I don't really have the time to take on a second full-time job, unless I move closer to home.

There is an Amazon facility in Arlington, maybe I could get in there. Maybe I could take up a second job close by.

I honestly really don't want to lose my 401(k) match.
Even if I took a higher paying job somewhere else, I'd have to eat the loss of that match, and, most employers don't allow participation in 401(k) benefits for a while, a year usually.

...

463

Well, we got overtime, thank God. Maybe the Universe isn't giving me too much of a hard time.

...

464

It's been raining almost the whole day. I was asleep, so I really didn't notice it. I had an energy drink last night, and I had trouble falling asleep. With as bad as it's raining right now, it reminds me that I really should try to stop smoking. It's a headache to walk all the way across the parking lot in the frozen rain to my car to smoke.
I'm glad there's overtime finally.

...

465

I had trouble falling asleep these last few days. I had an energy drink 2 days ago. That was probably a bad idea, I haven't been consuming much caffeine, so I might be more sensitive to caffeine than I should be.
It was also really cold. So maybe those two things in tandem caused me to have trouble falling asleep.
What am I thinking? Well, I'm not really sure. It's not as cold today as it was yesterday.

Working at the Janitorial company was a total disaster. The guy who offered me the job, someone I met at the bar, invited me to lunch the day before payday, and insulted me non-stop during the entire meal. Obviously, I'm not going to work for a person who does that to me, so, I stopped showing up to the janitorial job, and, I have no idea how to get my paycheck. I text messaged him, instructing him to send me final check to me by mail, and then immediately blocked him. He was obviously trying to steal my money and wages.
I have no idea how to handle this, but I guess I'll figure it out over the next few days.

...

466

I'm tired beyond all recognition. I'm not going to have an energy drink again. My sleep cycle has been garbage mode since Friday.

I'm honestly kind of tired. I think I have one more day of this, then I can figure out how to get back on a regular sleep cycle.

What happened earlier today, some asshole knocked on my door earlier today, so I opened the door completely naked, small dick and everything. 

Yeah, but I'm kind of grouchy right now. I get a few hours of sleep, if any, and then somehow it's already time to leave for work.

I don't know what the fuck was in that energy drink on Friday. I went to the buffet, ate a few plates, and that was it. I'm so fucking tired.

I'm thinking, maybe I should just drink a hell of a lot of water, and maybe this period of insomnia will be over.

I was thinking about it earlier, but there was some weird guy in the apartment complex trying to sell some kind of water device. Well, I guess I already mentioned this, but, yeah, he was scary. He had this beard that had to have been overgrown to the point of being disgusting. Anyway. After he left the first time, when I opened the door, he came back again. I addressed him through the door and told him to get the fuck away.

And now I'm kind of afraid that he might be some kind of weirdo.
Not that I'm really all that normal or anything.

I still don't understand
why any of this is considered
sensitive
content. why? i don't know. they
think it so, and why? well I don't know.

...

467

I finally paid off one of my credit cards that I've been making the minimum payments on for the longest time. It was just a hundred bucks and I've been meaning to pull the trigger on closing the balance on it for a while. I just never got around to it, until today.

One headache is that, I really only use my Chase card with any regularity, the other three I use every now and then, just to keep the account open. I honestly wouldn't mind just closing the other three, but, I really don't want to take the hit to my credit, so I'll just keep them open, even though I don't really plan on accumulating any kind of balance on them.

I must have eaten something like 8 packs of noodles.
I'm about to fall asleep.
I was able to get a decent amount of sleep these past few days.

...

468

What's on my mind? I'm not really sure. I had a few things to take care of that I put on my calendar. I am tired, but only because I'm still awake after work. 

There are times when I wonder: Am I acting like a jerk? or Am I acting like a brat? or, is the other person instigating me? Sometimes I feel like, when my jerk behavior rises to the surface of who I am, it's only because the other person had instigated me. I feel like, if a person can't be nice to me, then I can go ahead and go somewhere else. You know, like the expression: "If you don't like it: Leave." Sometimes I feel like I'm in a constant state of retreat. I feel like, a kind of, wandering Kenneth.

I don't know if I wrote about this, but I did end up getting my tires replaced at a tire shop close to my residence. One issue is that, I did order a new wheel for one of my tires, and the hub cap didn't fit, so it fucking fell off, and now I have one wheel that looks like a spare fucking tire. I spent close to 600 dollars on this, but, it drives fine, it just kind of looks funny. I didn't bother to make a big deal about it.

Sometimes I feel that if I make a big deal about something, even if it's something a totally normal person would make a big deal about, then, like, I'm just making too fucking big of a deal out of some small as shit. Like: If I make a big fucking deal out of something I totally should make a big fucking deal out of, then I'm fucking over-reacting.

I don't know what the hell to do. I need to get my spending down, but sometimes I'm just super fucking hungry. I'm super fucking hungry, I stopped buying any kind of food that is excessive, but sometimes I eat an excessive amount of totally reasonably priced food.

I feel like I shouldn't be too worried about what I spend on food, but the fucking Fortune Cookie Said: "DON'T EAT YOUR FORTUNE!"

So, I really don't know what to do about that. I'm worried about a lack of work, I'm worried about a lack of overtime, I'm worried about inflation, I'm worried about the indignities of being totally broke, and I really don't want to suffer the fucking indignities of being totally fucking broke, but I'm hungry as a starving werewolf.

And I'm not the kind of asshole who need to eat the most luxurious hot dogs in the universe, Gas Station Hot dogs are totally fine for me.

I remember, when I was working at the book factory, they gave us hot dogs, and they were honestly kind of plain, but for some reason they were just fucking amazing, and this is considering that I eat hot dogs almost all the time.

I think that most people get sick of hot dogs because they only ever put ketchup on their hot dogs.

Like. I don't know. Hot dogs are only as fun or as boring as you make them. Make them fun. You know. Anyway.

There was one thing that was actually kind of funny, I'm not actively looking for a second job, but I'm always open to the possibility, anyway, a recruiter reached out to me, and it was the company I already work for.

but there is also the Airport, and it's just across the street from where I already work, but I honestly haven't had the time, or the energy to actively look.
It's really freezing cold.

...

469

I'm tired. Today isn't the end of the work week, really, but it's the end of 6 day stretch of days worked.

...

470

It's amazing how quickly my day off vanished into thin air.
I went out to eat these last few days. Nothing extravagant.

I had a scam caller leave me a voice-mail. I called the non-emergency police hotline, and they said not to worry about it, as long as I didn't give them any information or try to call the scammers back.

I took time-off today, not a full shift, just a few hours. I went to the buffet, and what else? Just slept. I think that's pretty much all that I did, and, really, this isn't a day off, so I doubt that I did any more than that.

I bought 2 jackets, one from Amazon and one from Shopify, I bought one from Shopify because the merchant didn't have a store on Amazon, and the merchant on Amazon didn't have the color I wanted.

Let me think? What else do I have to worry about? I think that I'm just going to take assignment on any options that I wrote, and leave it at that. Even though I know how to roll options, I don't think that rolling options is the main strategy I'm going to use when dealing with options that are in the money.

I don't know, sometimes I buy in before a big drop, and when I do get out, it's for hardly more than I got in at, and that usually really sucks. I mean I'm in at 35, and, that's probably the same price I'll exit at.

...

471

I don't know, exactly, what's on my mind right now. It's cold and, I really don't have a whole lot to write about right now.

I have to decide if I really want to take assignment on the options that I wrote that are in the money, if I want to let the out of the money options that I wrote expire, or if I want to roll one group and not the other or vice versa, or. Or what.

...

472

I was thinking about something. I ordered a wallet, and, it made me think about how, years ago, my younger brother Noah gave me a wallet, either for my birthday, or for Christmas.

I think that I had it for so long that I repaired it several times, and I think I finally replaced it when I moved to Vegas.

I threw it away right in front of him, and my mom said something like, it's that wallet you gave kenny for his birthday years ago, he still had it.

I thought that he might have felt bad that I was throwing it away so casually, but then I pulled it out of the trash to show fucked up it really was, where I sewed it back together, and where I taped it, and the rips that I didn't bother fixing.

I've never been in Alcoholics Anonymous, but, they have numerous depictions in popular media and, you always hear them say, something about having the willpower to change the things I can, the humility to accept the things I can't change, and the wisdom to know the difference
Maybe I. Somethings I think I became a cranky old man way before I should have.

...

473

Let me think. They gave us ice cream at work, and there was a picture of an ice cream with strawberries on the ice cream truck, so I asked for that, but that wasn't an option, and I felt like an asshole for asking, but then, you never really know, maybe they thought it was funny.

...

474

My electricity bill was just a little over 5 dollars, I used a total of 18 KWH of electricity for this billing cycle. I wonder how that happened. I don't use a ton of electricity to begin with, so my bill hovers around the 7 dollar range.

...

475

I went to a few restaurants these past few days. One place had fish tacos.

I have a few things that I ordered online. I don't know exactly how this works. The last thing I bought was an order of t-shirts from fruit of the loom, and I don't remember when that was, and I haven't really been getting any mail, and I know for sure that a few things haven't arrived.

I did get a few comments on my YouTube channel requesting more poetry readings. I'm not sure what I would read.

I might do a few. I think my last batch of poetry readings was from right before I left Missouri.

I was feeling a little sad earlier. A kind of feeling of being lost, or, kind of without aim. I don't know what I'm doing out here. I mean, I don't know what I'm doing out here in Texas. I don't know exactly where I would go if I felt like leaving Texas. I've been highly irritable.

...

476

I went out to eat right before work, and I didn't end up ordering anything other than a drink.
I got caught up in kind of a conversation with one of the other customers at the bar.

I don't really know what to do next right now. I don't want to get side-tracked right now, but I don't really have anything planned right now, so I don't really know, you know, too much about anything.
In fact, I kind of hesitated with any sell trades because I don't want to create any wash losses.

I just don't know entirely how that works, and, I don't really want to do anything, considering that there are only a handful of days left in the year.
I think that my major short term goal is to get prepared for tax season, and then, I don't know, maybe, prepare to move somewhere.

I'll try to stay where I am for at least another 18 - 20 months, but, I don't really know where I would go. I guess I have 18 - 20 months to figure that out.
What else. I'm eating at Waffle House this morning.
I ate here yesterday morning. I usually get hot dogs at QuikTrip, but, I don't know, maybe I'm in a different kind of mood.

...

477

My mom and my dad reached out to me for Christmas.
I recorded a poetry reading for my Chestnut + Hazel channel on YouTube. I really don't know what to do with that thing, since, it really hasn't gone anywhere. One thing I did notice is that my heavy breathing is really fucking audible in my poetry readings, and, I really don't know what to do about that.

...

478

For my IBKR portfolio, I've decided to get rid of any ETFs that are not index related, I put in limit orders to sell them at a profit, so that I don't have to deal with any wash-loss disallowed kind of nonsense. This means that it might take a while for these to be executed, if ever, but, I think that it makes the most sense to approach it this way. Anyway, the limit orders that I put through are only the next dollar up from either my cost basis, or the current market price, so I'm not being ridiculous or anything.

I was thinking about filing another copyright, this time for the Letters from Sanford Street series, but, I figured that I won't do that right now, but this is the last day that I can do that for 2021. So maybe, I might come around to it.

  <head>

  <link rel="shortcut icon" href="https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEjb8Hx5yW14LtVGekHze9pQh6b6GB3Dzr0J-NXdXc-jvCPt28Mcag8ISOKii-XCRgHxuqgmY3t1Ff0y9C1AOH-r-PwAjBZd0sQfXNWLLjyU3RRskbWAt5j7R7-N1gx-0sEo0MUYlvF6h7AGlSYM_AchZPOMCkBONFj0LFaxasH9AW6NuNlJrOk75y55FcQ/s16000/dSpFCwwAkjCupJi%20(1)%20asfddsaf.png">

  </head>

<html>
<body>
    <body style="background-image: url('https://static.independent.co.uk/s3fs-public/thumbnails/image/2011/02/06/17/550127.jpg?quality=75&width=1990&crop=4%3A3%2Csmart&auto=webp');">
    <title>The Best Haircut</title>
    <h3>Hello Earth! Moon! Mars! & Venus!</h3>
    <p>What I thought was a haircut turned out</p> 
    <p>not to be a haircut. it was. actually. </p>
    <p>just. hair. </p>
    <p>hiding behind the neck.</p>
    <p>hair hides behind the neck </p>
    <p>and plays </p>
    <p>hide and seek. </p>
    <p>or maybe </p>
    <p>MARCO ! POLO ! </p>
    <p>no hair is the same as hairless  </p>
    <p>no hare is a tortoise. </p>
    <p>FASTER! slower. FASTER! FASTER! FASTER!</p>
   <p>Harder? like the shell of a tortoise?</p>

    <p>NO! just FASTER!</p>
    <h1>My home </h1>
    <p>is on Audrey Hepburn Street! </p>
    <p>where else could I possibly live?</p>
    <h2>Things I like about my home</h2>
    <p>foremost among those things I like about my home</p>
    <p>is that Audrey Hepburn is always here</p>
    <p>and in the neighborhood I like that we have</p>
    <ul> <li>places Audrey Hepburn likes to eat</li><li>places Audrey Hepburn likes to go</li><li>places Audrey Hepburn likes to see</li></ul>

    <body style="background-color:#f5f5dc">
    
</body>
</html>

...

479

My mind is in a number of different places at the moment.

The other day I tried Door Dashing, and, I managed to do it for about 30 minutes before getting out of the app. I did one delivery from Jack in the Box, and it took me about 30 minutes. I was immediately frustrated, and decided to log out of the app before letting my irritation come to a boil.
Claret is a shade of red.
I decided not to file a copyright for 2021.

I'm thinking about how to top off my IRA and HSA for 2021, and I just do not see how this is going to happen. I need to come up with about 2200 per month from now, until April in order to do that, and I just do not see that happening.

I thought about just transferring the money out of my Robinhood account to do this, but, this is something I will wait until April to decide on.

Last year I took a different approach, I think I deposited all my money into my Robinhood account, and transferred everything to Fidelity at the very end, in May or June.

This is actually something that has me a little hung up, and worried.

I don't know what it is, but I just do not have a whole lot of energy to do any food delivery stuff. When I drive around I just feel really tired.

I'm really skeptical that any kind of content creation kind of efforts will really come to anything. Blogging, YouTubing, Instagramming, or TikTok posting.
I just really don't have much energy for very much of anything.

I went out to eat on New Year's Eve, I went to Social House first, but they were closing when I arrived, so I went over to Boomer Jack's and ate there instead.
I really don't know what to do. 

For whatever reason I'm just not able to make very much money delivering food. This is something that occurred to me months ago, and logging back in just reminded me of why I dropped out of the whole thing. I just don't think that it's a totally viable way of making money.

This new location that I've transferred to doesn't really have as much overtime as I would have hoped, I requested a transfer out, and then withdrew my transfer request a few days after. I think that it would make sense for me to wait until late January to make any decisions about transferring out or staying, but, by then it might be too late. Too late in the sense that I won't have made adequate progress toward topping off my IRA or HSA on schedule.

So what the hell do I do?
Underlying everything is the need to top off my IRA and HSA for 2021 before April 15th 2022.
I don't know if this is going to work or not, but I figured that I would give it a try:

So here is how our protagonist ends
tax season for the year twenty-twenty-
two: luckily by April fifteenth he sends
I hate this shit, let's try something else

By April he puts together the full
ten-thousand dollars he needs to top off
his IRA and HSA. A dull
three and a half months harboring a moth

inside of his empty stomach, starving
or eating saltine crackers and ramen
noodles and canned pork & beans, not harming
his liver and kidneys with his slamming

of cocktail after cocktail of gin or
whiskey or vodka, gnawing upon ribs,
not sitting on the barstool to adore
the girl with colorful tattoos and hips

jutting ever so fabulously from her waist,
her neat black hair, her spandexed ass he'd love to taste.

I don't know if that's really going to do anything about my. Financial. Situation. I don't really know. If. Writing poetry. really. does. anything. useful.

What's the point of this. money crap. having more money isn't going to bring me any closer to tasting her posterior.

What. Is. The.   point. OF this. earning more money. also. isn't going to bring me any closer to tasting her posterior.

What is the point of life? Is tasting her ass the only thing. that. Like is that the main objective here?

...

480

I was thinking about buying an energy drink right now, but I remember the last time I did this, and it did not go well, so, I decided not to get an energy drink. 

I'm trying to think. I'm doing a small amount of day and swing trading, just 5 shares at a time, and I've been able to enter and exit 3 out of 4 of the ticker symbols I'm working with, but on the 4 one, I'm slowly starting to accumulate a position, but my thinking is that, I'll eventually be able to exit, or, I'll accumulate a full 100 shares, and attempt to exit via writing covered call options.

I had Thursday off, and slept the whole day, I didn't go out to eat, but I thought about it, and then decided against it. It wasn't because I didn't want to spend the money, it was because it was late at night, and I really wasn't sure what would be open, or, what I would or wouldn't feel like eating.

I bought new pants. 17 pairs, which I think is kind of a lot of pants. I bought cardboard boxes too, the kind that resemble plastic filing totes with lids, it probably would have been slightly cheaper to buy plastic totes.

Anyway, I'm not using them to file documents or anything. My goal is to organize things that I keep in my closet.

...

481

I've started drinking energy drinks again. 
I did some online shopping for my 
collections. I bought some clothes.
My company offers paid vocational and 
career training, and some of the programs 
are kind of appealing. I'm going to 
continue checking them out.

My spending has been 
kind of high, but most 
of these are one-off purchases.

...

482

I started working a second job. I'm tired, and I'm wondering if this is something I'll adjust to or not.

I'm thinking back about my time in Missouri, and I remember my last few months out there, and I remember how every little thing just really got on my nerves.

I remember not being sure if people were trying to get on my nerves, or if I was just in a highly irritable state of mind, or if everyone was in a highly irritable state of mind, and we all just got on each-others nerves or what.

I'm tired, and it irritates me when someone points out that I look tired. I am fucking tired. Don't remind me. You know.

I guess. The reason I'm doing this whole two jobs thing is because I thought that there wouldn't be much overtime. I don't need two jobs if there is enough overtime.

...

483

My feet are killing me. 

I ate 12 eggs yesterday.
a whole dozen
i was so hungry
and they were so
ready to be eaten.

...

484

I guess that didn't work. For some reason, I get the feeling that it just isn't something that is going to work for me going forward.

How do I explain this. It almost feels like people want to make my life difficult.

I'm not expecting life to be easy, I just don't think that life needs to be unnecessarily hard. I guess it's just that way.

I'm going to forget about working a second job for the time being, and just focus on cutting spending.

Nightmare. A real fucking nightmare.

So I quit my job at the gas station. I really just couldn't work there. I'm not sure if it was incompatibility with the company culture, or, maybe they just didn't want me there.

And honestly, I don't have to work anywhere I'm not welcome.

There's this concept in psychology called gaslighting, and, as I understand the concept, a person who gaslights another person makes an effort to instill a sense of self-doubt in another person, and that's honestly not the kind of thing I really have to deal with.

So I really just need to hold on to as much money as I can. I might try to find another day job, or another way to come up with more money.

I really think that having cash on hand is the best defense against assholes.

But this is something I came across. This treatment is something I came across those last few months in Missouri. It felt like it just wouldn't go away, and it felt like it was coming from everybody.

...

485

It's hard to explain what exactly the issue was with the people I worked with at the gas station.

I walked off the job because I couldn't stand the way I was being treated.

The whole experience really makes me want to tighten my belt financially, because I know this isn't the last time I'll come across people like this.

I remember years ago, when I was working at Chase and Office Depot, I had managers at both jobs that I really couldn't stand, but I had to put up with it because I really didn't have any other options.

I wonder what I would have done differently back then if I could have.

These this idea that you need to stick up for yourself, and not let people walk all over you, if you let people walk all over you, or treat you like garbage, then, you're not showing any sense of self-worth.

When I quit the job at the gas station, my thinking was that I'm going to stick up for myself, and this place can go ahead and deal with high turn over.

How do you deal with people you don't like, or people you can't really stand? My typical approach has been to limit contact people I can't really stand, but in many cases they just sort of force or instigate interactions.

I almost don't even want to buy gas any more.

There are a few electric vehicles that I really like, but I have no idea where I would charge them up. Plus it's going to be a while before I replace my existing car. I'm 30,000 miles in, I don't drive much anymore, and I don't plan on increasing my amount of driving in the future. I want to replace my car at 100,000 miles, but that's basically 6 years away.

Then there is the IRA and HSA issue that I'm dealing with. I'm 6,439 away from completing my contributions for 2021, I have until mid April to cap these off, and quitting the job at the gas station doesn't make hitting this goal any easier.

I was looking at my W-2 and the kind of massive amount of money that is withheld from my wages. Around 8000 between federal income taxes, and social security / medi-care.

The money that I contribute to my HSA and IRA only saves me about 1200 in taxes. Based on the refund calculator, I would owe 700 dollars, assuming no IRA and HSA contributions, but with them maxed, I should get back around 400 bucks.

Knowing how much money I have to put together before April, I really didn't want to go out and eat today, but I eventually gave in and went to the buffet.

I have cross- training at the warehouse, and I'm hoping that this would get me more overtime opportunities, but who knows.

So what do I do about the IRA / HSA garbage? Well, I'm going to estimate that a realistic amout that I can put away between now and mid-April at 2,000, that would leave 4,500 that I would have to come up with from some other source, and 2,000 isn't totally realistic because it would mean coming up with as much overtime as I had during December.

What the hell do I do for extra money? I almost get the feeling that people resent the idea of someone working two jobs if they don't need to, like, people think you're being greedy or something.

I'm going to take it that working two jobs just isn't a path or option that's really going to work.

Day trading and swing trading hasn't exactly worked. I might consider, buying a book and trying a few strategies, but, I have to think about it.

And the food delivery stuff just doesn't really work all that well. 

What else?

I'm going to hope that cross-training at work opens more overtime opportunities, and kind of stick with that.

I wonder what would have happened if things went differently in Missouri.

But, maybe, if everything happens for a reason, then, maybe I had to leave Missouri. I honestly never would have moved out of my parent's house if there wasn't some kind of catalyst for doing so.

So I'm not going to try and look for a second job, I'm not going to try trading, and food delivery is out too, so what do I do?

I don't understand how to sell stuff online. I only sold a few things on Facebook, and, they only sold because they were super underpriced.

...

486

I went to the grocery store. I actually tried to go earlier in the day, but the road was too icy. I originally tried to go to Jack in the Box, but it was closed, so I went back home.

I think that I originally tried to go to the grocery store, but determined it was too far considering the road conditions, so I tried to go to Jack in the Box, but it was closed.

I bought a few lottery tickets the day before. I'm feeling kind of stuck where I am. I want to try some of the paid college programs that my work is offering, but it really does take some looking into. One of the fine print notes is that the benefit could effect my taxable income, but this really isn't a big deal, because if it counts as taxable income, then it should count as money that I'm spending on education, and I should get a tax credit for this spending.

I guess I will look into it, if I remember correctly, I should get a tax credit of about 50 percent on education spending, which is more than the 12 percent I would pay on that money since it counts as income.

Actually, the tax credit is 20 percent. So it still makes sense to take it.

...

487

I don't really know. Right now I have a few ideas. 

One. Is that this just isn't going to happen the way I wanted it to. I'm going to have to bite the bullet and take the money out of my Robinhood account and be done with it.

Two. I'm lost. Or. Directionless

Three. It's not longer ten thousand that I need by mid-April, like I wrote in my poem. Its only 6400 at this point, but my thinking is, I might as well draw down some extra cash to prepare for relocation. Someone asked me the other day what I came to Texas for. I didn't want to say something like: "Well, as far as I can tell, I lost touch with reality." Instead I said that I had thought about leaving Missouri for a while, and that it was a toss up between St Paul - Minneapolis, and Dallas - Ft Worth.

Four. For whatever reason. I don't know, I was chatting with this young lady and I realized, for whatever reason, I just don't think I'm able to just make things happen like a real man or whatever. I think I'm more like a leaf.

Five. I have this idea. Maybe I'll apply to graduate school one more fucking time. And I really gotta fucking tell you. Fuck business. Fuck anything useful. And fuck creative writing. Stupid poetry that nobody wants to publish. I have this fucking other idea.

Fuck careers. And fuck business. And fuck science and fuck math, and fuck investing and fuck the future fuck dating. Fuck gas stations. Fuck restaurants. Fuck life and fuck paychecks.

Fuck everything that makes me unhappy.
Fuck real estate. Fuck the stock market. And fuck cryptocurrency. Fuck technology and fuck the internet. Fuck mobile apps. And the metaverse.

Fuck letters of fucking recommendation and fuck the strength of my fucking portfolio. That I obviously don't even fucking have. 

Fuck hot dogs and being hungry in the morning.

Fuck gasoline. Fuck relocation. 

Fuck driving across town to get a chicken roller because I feel awkward about walking out on the job from he gas station.

Anyway.

I have to tell you.
Forget planning for a retirement, and Forget planning for a rainy day.

Well. I honestly don't know how much I no longer give a shit, but I almost no longer give a shit. 

But. I almost don't even give a shit if I get rejected, but I kind of think that not giving a shit is almost the kind of thing that gets a person rejected.

...

488

I'm at an Irish pub. I ordered fish and chips. I really don't want to spend money eating at restaurants, but, I think I also no longer give a shit.

I don't want to be late for work, and again, I'm not sure I give a shit anymore.

I'm hungry. I honestly resent everything. I'm honestly not happy anymore. I honestly.

I wanted to go to the art store. Work on a stupid art portfolio. I almost know that it's not going to be fucking good enough.

But I'm not sure I give a shit anymore.

Maybe I'll just fucking skip work. I'm still not sure I give a shit anymore.

...

489

What's on my mind?

I bought some paints today, but it was just 6 or 7 different shades of red.

My mind is all over the place really.

Sometimes. Sometimes I just really don't know.

I have to figure out this whole grad school application crap.

This is like the 5th time I've done this shit since Las Vegas.

I still get these emails from this one college in Texas that I didn't formally apply to but selected during the FAFSA process as being a potential college that I would apply to.

...

490

I took a road trip out to New Orleans, and the truth is: this has been a disaster. I anticipate making it home at some point.

Disaster. Towing my car back to Dallas is the plan I've kind of come up with. Damn it. It's just so fucking expensive.

...

491

I might be stuck in this town. I might be stuck in Louisiana.

...

492

Good God. So here's the fucking deal. I'm a fucking mile and a half away from home, and my towing dollie blew out. Disaster. Real disaster.

Real fucking disaster.

I don't think I have roadside assistance through my insurance company. I'll look in a minute.

I know there was something through the car manufacturer, but, that paperwork would be at home, if at all. I think I threw it away, or mailed it to.  

You know who.

I really just want to leave all this here. Head home, and figure it out in the morning, but that's a risk I don't want to take right now, especially since everything is falling apart right now.

And everything is falling apart with a kind of. Precision.

Well. I was getting worried that I might be cursed, but then I realized that everyone kind of experiences rough times,

And that this is probably the time of my life when things are rough.

I thought, maybe I'm cursed, maybe this is karma for committing some kind of offense, or offending someone, or, committing some kind of sacrilege,

But then, I realize, that I'm just going to go with the idea that. Everyone experiences tough times during their life, and this is the time of my life where I'm having a hard time.

Everyone. experiences. Hard times. And these are my hard times.

I'll never forget when someone told me, quoting Winston Churchill. Said. success is not final, failure is not fatal. What counts is the courage to continue.

My life has almost gone down the toilet in 4 days. but. I'm not. Dead. Yet.

This. Series of catastrophes hasn't actually killed me. 

I'm tired. I want to just get home and figure it out in the morning. If you are wondering why I don't have roadside assistance insurance, the answer is this, like any other kind of insurance, there are coverage limits, deductibles, and out-of-pocket expenses.

Even with one of the better roadside assistance policies, I would have blown through 8 or 9 roadside assistance calls just getting back to Dallas, and that's assuming a roadside assistance insurance company would tolerate certain shenanigans. More likely it would have been 1 tow with a kind of large out-of-pocket expense.

Anyway. Let's think about a comparable issue. Health care. Right. Emergency room visits and ambulance rides are the most expensive ways of dealing with health issues, it's more economical to go urgent care and even more economical to schedule an appointment with an in-network provider and all that shit.

If I could just get home, and figure this out in the morning, I turn these emergency car troubles into urgent care car troubles.

I'm dead tired. It's cold. And I'm paralyzed in the sense that I don't really know what to do.

I have 2 major issues here. There's the issue with my car. And. There is the fucking issue with the towing dollie.

I don't mind having my car towed to the dealership, but, what would I do about the dollie?

If I could just get a spare tire for the dollie I could tow my car to the dealership, and take the truck and towing dollie back to the rental company. Even if I had roadside assistance insurance, I would have exceeded my policy limits several times over.

Alrighty, so the rental company had roadside assistance.

This disaster is almost over with.

...

493

So.
Here is an update. 
and I'm not sure how much of this I've put in other posts.
So. 

Basically, I'm back in Arlington after a catastrophic trip to New Orleans, and the thing about this trip was, I basically didn't stay in New Orleans for very long. I didn't find too much interesting about New Orleans, and I honestly couldn't find a hotel room that was cheap enough for me to stay in, or cheap enough for me to want to pay, anyway, I didn't stay on New Orleans for more than a few hours.

The funny thing was that, nearly every hotel I came across was booked up, at least on the interstate highway. I blew my clutch, I ended up stuck in a small town in Louisiana called Jennings, between Lafayette and Lake Charles. I really don't imagine that Lafayette and Lake Charles are in any way more notable than Jennings, but they look bigger on the map.

So. I was stuck in Jennings Louisiana, and for a while I thought about fixing this whole thing myself.

Eventually I figured that I would rent a U-Haul truck and tow my car back to Arlington on my own, and once back in Arlington, figure out what to do next.

I made it back to Arlington, and, about a mile and a half away from my apartment, the tire on the towing dolly blew out, I hesitated for a while because I didn't want to pay any more money on towing, especially after paying a towing fee to get my car to Jennings, and then rent the U-Haul for the express purpose of towing my car, anyway, I read my U-Haul rental contract, and, it seemed that Roadside assistance was included in my rental rate, so I contacted U-Haul's roadside assistance, and they sent a mechanic to fix the towing dolly.

I made it home, but I couldn't find anywhere to park, so I went to the hotel right next to my apartment complex to see if they would let me park my car there for a fee, and they said no, that the parking lot was only for people who were renting rooms there. So I said fuck it, and rented a room. I was honestly so fucking tired at that point that I didn't know what else to do. Fuck. Anyway.

What else? I requested a leave of absence from my position at Amazon.

The U-Haul was dropped off, and my car is at the service center at one of the Mitsubishi dealerships in the area.

I would like to get back to work at Amazon as soon as I possibly can, but, without my car, I'm not sure if that's possible, I'm not sure how the bus system works in this area, and I'm not even sure if there is a bus system within walking distance of my residence, for the year and a half or two years that I've been here, I haven't seen a bus near my apartment, and I don't think I've ever even seen a bus stop. I know that there is a bus stop near my work, but I'm not sure if that. I'm not sure if that bus is a metro transit bus, or if it is an airport shuttle bus, or what the deal is.

I requested a leave of absence of about a month and a half, and I'm hoping that I don't need that much time off, but maybe that much time off would be good for me, however, I inadvertently started a job at a janitorial company. During my bar and restaurant hopping over these past few days, a couple of guys at the bar. I accepted, and I worked with them today at the stadium. At the time, I was in two minds about accepting a job, on the one hand, I'm not working, and, I'm potentially in a financial pickle, and, whatever kind of work that pays will soften the blow of this whole Louisiana Catastrophe, on the other hand, I thought that it would make sense not to work, to sort of get my head straight about everything in life that has been bothering my lately, and just maybe, use the money I already have to sort all these issues out.

One thing about working at the janitorial company, at least for the time being, is that the guys I work with are my neighbors, so I'm able to hitch a ride with them to the stadium, I have almost no way of getting to my job at Amazon until my car is fixed.

This Louisiana Catastrophe is going to take a while for me to recover from, financially. I don't know what to do.

when you
see her you
will be happy
and she will be
happy too
but she knows.
that she likes you

Just thinking about everything this causing my stress to increase.

it's strange for me to see a sign up bonus
to do ride-share work. I'm here in Las Vegas
and I just don't know what to do to make
a little extra money.

Truth is. I'm having a hard time.

...

494

I'm back at work at Amazon. I guess that this sort of settles the issue of returning to work. This is sooner than I was hoping, but, whatever.

My leave of absence request was denied.

I want to start over in a new town. I think I'll visit Louisiana again once my car is fixed.

I want to start over.

Again.

...

495

I either want to relocate, or, go to college or something.

I don't think my sadness or my despair is related to the Louisiana issues. I've been feeling this way for a while. Everything is just more than I can fucking handle. Everything is a cause for unhappiness. I want like a long, extended period of doing nothing. I want a kind of hibernation. Like months just napping.

When I wake up, the only thing I feel is the desire to just stay where I am, napping. I really just want to hibernate for a while.

...

496

I almost want to close my accounts at Citibank. Not because there is any problem with their services, it's just that I'm not getting much out of the banking experience from them, in the sense that, they haven't upgraded my credit card in two review cycles, and I've also had that checking account for over a decade.

And that's also why I hesitate to close the account, I've had the account for over a decade, and, I did get a personal loan through them that did turn out to be extremely helpful in improving my finances during that particular point in my life, and so, I'll really have to think about what to do about that.

I paid that account of extremely early, and I'm sure that they didn't make as much in interest as they would have liked, but, I also have myself to think about, so, honestly, I'm hoping that there weren't too much in terms of hard feelings.

When I think about credit cards, and loans and stuff, I think about interest rates, and, how to minimize how much I'm paying to the bank, anyway. I have all this shit I have to deal with. Disaster. Nightmare. Who knows what's next.

I've been taking Lyft rides to work. There is a signing bonus, apparently, of $2,300.00 dollars to sign-up to drive with them.

I have all the documents that I need for me to do my taxes, I just need to finish transfering money into the Fidelity accounts. Even though I was hesitating to dump money into them because I wanted to hold onto that cash until the last minute, just in case of an emergency, well, not I have had that emergency as a result of my trip to Louisiana. Piece of shit catastrophe. 

...

497

What is on my mind right now? A number of different things. 

First. I need to get my paycheck from the janitorial company. The guy who offered me the job invited me to lunch, and made a point of denigrating me the entire time I was eating. It was to the point where, he was taunting me with fighting words, and I'm know for a fact that I would have been well within my legal rights to respond with violence. I abstained from that course of action, paid for my meal, left, and blocked his phone number. I suspect that he behaved that way intentionally in an effort not to pay me for my work. I'm not sure how I'll recover this money.

There seems to be an attitude in people I come across, where, people seem to think being denigrating or condescending establishes their superiority, but really, it's a taunt, an instigation, and quite frankly, an invitation to fight. In many ways I really do think that I need to get out of this place, out of Dallas - Fort Worth. I don't know if things would be better somewhere else. At the restaurant, I threw many of his comments right back at him. I really have to stay away from people like that. I just don't know why people are like that. Nearly everyone I came across at the gas station.

Anyway. I'm going to see about getting my paycheck from them. I'll escalate the issue to the Texas Workforce Commission or the US Department of Labor if I have to. I just still don't know why people are like that, why people try to instigate a response like that. I don't know how to deal with it, if someone makes me angry, I know that the best thing to do is walk away, but, how many fucking times do I have to walk away? You either respond with words, fight, or walk away.

...

498

There is nothing left to eat in my apartment. I ate the last of my ramen packets the other day, and now I don't have anything left to eat. It's freezing, the roads are frozen over, and, there is just no way to get to the grocery store, even if I had my car, it might be slightly dangerous to drive to the grocery store. So, I guess I'll just go out to eat. The last two days I ate at the pizza buffet, and then tonight I ate at the mariscos restaurant near my residence.

...

499

It's freezing. My mom and dad have been bombarding me with calls. I have other things to worry about right now. I have a lot of other things on my mind right now. Things are kind of a disaster right now, but, what I need the most is time to think and assess how to best tackle the issues I'm facing.

The heights of my ambitions have taken a spectacular nose-dive these last few months. My conclusion is that the best thing to do is leave the state and start over somewhere else.

My mom left several messages and she seems to think I'm homeless right now, but, I'm not homeless or anything.

I have no idea when to relocate, if I should wait until July, or July 2023. Or how exactly how to deal with that exactly, and where would I go?

When things get too exciting, they very easily get out of hand, for that reason I don't really want to go anywhere too exciting.

What am I looking for? Atlantis? El Dorado? The Garden of Eden? The Fountain of Youth? The Northwest Passage? I think there are things that just don't exist, and looking for them is pure vanity, but I don't think I'm looking for some magical bullshit paradise or whatever. I'm just looking for that place in the universe where I don't struggle so much, where things are kind of easy.

...

500

What's on my mind? It bothers me when my parents worry about me. The idea that I can be forced into the hospital worries me. Maybe I'll hold it together. Maybe I'll keep it together. In many ways I'm sure I'm falling apart. I don't know what the hell to do. I kind of want to take a trip somewhere, but I have no idea where. My car is still in the shop, and, the time line for getting things squared away continues to be pushed back.

Maybe I can just fly somewhere, but, with the war, maybe it doesn't make sense to travel anywhere internationally, and I can't stand the idea of flying domestically when I can just drive domestically myself.

Applications are open again for the software development program, but my confidence is just way too bruised from my previous experience to try again. I keep requesting a box to return the computer, but, it just never seems to arrive. I just can't seem to bring myself to reapply.

I was hoping that working 2 jobs might be the answer, but, it just didn't, everyone at the gas station was a jerk, and, the guy who offered me the job at the janitorial company turned out to be a jerk. Maybe the only time that it would ever work was when I was in Missouri.

...

501

What a totally absolute catastrophe. I heard back from the service center, and if this car situation isn't covered by the manufacturer's warranty, then, this repair bill is kind of a disaster. I feel like whatever progress I've made these last few years has pretty much been for nothing.

I don't want to say that things could be worse, because, they could get worse, and I'm not even prepared for things to get worse.

I don't want to say that I feel insecure, or fearful, or overcome with despair, because even though any one of these might be accurate, or even true, I think that best way of saying how I really feel is that my situation is pretty fucking precarious.

My situation is pretty fucking precarious, and I'm pretty fucking overcome with feelings of uncertainty about the future.

...

502

I don't know. Waiting for the work week to be over. I don't know what I'm looking for. Really. 

I think I'll start small. Or.

I think I'll work on something small during my days off.

...

503

I have a lot of things on my mind right now. I might be able to top off my IRA and HSA for 2021, but this plan is more or less shot, the only way that this will happen is from transferring out of Robinhood and IBKR the amounts that I need, it's not coming from my March and April paychecks in any major way, if at all.

I potentially have a repair bill for my car, and this bill has the potential to be quite large. It's still up in the air if this will be a warranty repair or not, and I'm really hoping that it turns out to be a warranty repair. In the meantime, I'm still without a car. These Lyft rides are expensive, I think that the pricing is more or less fair, but they are still breaking my budget, the only reason I do them is because I don't exactly have a choice right now.

I want to make a side note. I think that prices can be inexpensive, fair, or expensive, and then, they cost can be either within my budget, or out of my budget. I think that the Lyft rides prices are fair, most of the time, but, they are definitely not within my budget, even when the prices are inexpensive, the daily cost of my trip to work, and my trip home can be anywhere from 50 to 70 dollars per day. I'm running up credit card debt and depleting my savings right now, and it's honestly kind of a nightmare.

I also reapplied for the ATA SDE program. I don't really know what to say. I still have the computer that they sent me last year, I tried to send it back, but the return box never came, and I think that I requested one several times.

My head is in a number of different places right now. I'm frustrated with a lot of things. Things are a nightmare right now. A lot of things are a real fucking nightmare right now, and I have no idea when things will get better. These recent disasters are going to take a while to recover from. Nightmare. Real nightmare.

I'm trying to get organized. What do I need to do right now? My car could be ready as early as next week.

...

504

Right now I'm wondering if there is anything that I have to do today? Is there anything that I have to do today? Sometimes there are things that I need to do that really aren't things that I would put on my calendar, but need to get done, and also, easy to forget.

I was able to get around to organizing the stuff in my apartment, but I really don't have a ton of stuff in my apartment, really, I spent that time re-organizing things that I had organized previously. One example of what I did was, I had three boxes with cutting tools, picks and files, and sewing and fabric tools, spread almost equally among the three boxes, and, just separated the items into the three separate boxes according to tool type. The other thing was to consolidate clothing items into the boxes that I keep my clothing in. I also had two boxes with documents and my stamp collection, which I separated into one box for my stamp collection, and one box for document storage.

I don't know if I should go to the store or not, I don't know if there is anything that I need to buy, or, if I should really just hold off on buying anything until I really need to.

...

505

Good lord. I went out to eat, and I ate way more than I wanted to. 
see how you can be when you see how you
can spend more time with the people who you hang out with

I want to make a point not to eat at any restaurant I've already eaten at. Or. Maybe. Not to eat at the same place more than 1 or 2 times.

...

506

I'm sure that I offended somebody, somewhere, at some point, I just have no idea what's going on with my life right now, and why nearly everything is kind of garbage right now.

Let's see, I went to the UPS store to return my equipment from my previous application to the ATA SDE program. I ended up eating at Shell Shack, and, I honestly spent more than I wanted to. I really have to watch the fuck out because I'm really in a precarious position financially right now. I really wasn't even that hungry in the first place. Nothing I ordered was really all that expensive, the issue is that I ordered a whole bunch of cheap stuff.

On the one hand, I know that I need to be prudent with my money, on the other hand, maybe the world is going to end, and, the prudent thing to do would be to enjoy my money, but then again, maybe everything will be fine. Or maybe it won't. Who knows.

I'm still a little bit unhappy, and a little bit frustrated with things right now. Frustrated with the way that things are going for me. I really anticipate this year being tough, but, when I think about it, I don't think I ever really had an easy year.

I think that. Sometimes, when life is easy for me, or, when I'm happy with things, or, when I'm satisfied with things, or whatever, I think that the Universe wants to wipe the grin off my face, or wipe the smirk off my face, or whatever.

...

507

I want to go out to eat, but, I'm in kind of a garbage kind of mood right now, and I also have to get fucking organized, and, I have to get started on, whatever shit I have to get squared away. I don't even know if I'm really even fucking hungry right now. I'm in a fucking lousy mood. A really fucking lousy mood.

One of the things that I wanted to get was the Heist issue from Bloomberg Magazine, when I went to the Bloomberg website, I didn't see an option for buying a back issue in paper, so I tried to get it on Amazon, but I just threw it on my wish list. I'll come back around to it later and see if I still want to get it.

Interactive Brokers is somewhat, actually, it's a hell of a lot more difficult to understand when compared to Robinhood. Way more difficult to understand. I don't want to close either account. What I want to do is grow both accounts. There are a few things that Robinhood does well, and it's the news letters and access to a news feed that helps the most. To keep tabs on things. 

Oh my god. Jesus. My lord.

I'm uploading all of these Submittable poems to my Blog. Many of them haven't been here before. Many of them I haven't already scraped and posted to my blog. The reason why is that. While a submission is under consideration by the magazine or journal, it's important that the work in the submission doesn't appear any where else, either online or in print, so I may have just left them in Submittable without posting them here, and later forgot to collect them when they were rejected.

I'm at the Copyright website, and checking it out.

I want to try getting a copyright on something, just to fill out the form, and pay the fee, and see how the whole process works. I don't think that I'll eventually make any money out of this. I don't think that I'm going to make any money from anything that I copyright. This is just an experiment.

There was an incident where a kind of attractive woman suggested that I add her on Snapchat. What happened was I suggested that she add me online. I didn't specify what platform or whatever, and then she said Snapchat. I hesitated because I associate Snapchat with amateur porn. So we added each other on Facebook instead, and I wonder if maybe she was suggesting I take a look at her nude photographs. I should have done it.

I want to go out to eat, but, I'm in kind of a garbage kind of mood right now, and I also have to get fucking organized, and, I have to get started on, whatever shit I have to get squared away. I don't even know if I'm really even fucking hungry right now. I'm in a fucking lousy mood. A really fucking lousy mood.

Right now I just
want to eat more than
I ate yesterday when I ate
so much food that I
exploded.

...

508

I went out to eat again today. I don't feel any better, or any happier. I went to Tipsy Oak, and then right after, to Hurtado's. I've avoided bringing down my Robinhood balance, but, in a few weeks I won't have any fucking choice whatsoever. There's always something going on. I have to watch my spending, but I just keep getting into these moods where I don't fucking care.

...

509

I don't really know. Clouds in the sky. I'm guessing it will rain. I have to get it together. I'm still in a shitty mood, but shitty moods go away. I'm not sure what the hell I need to do.

Sometimes it's possible to lose interest in. Sometimes it's possible to lose interest in things. Sometimes it's.

but that was how you
turned into mush
and how you turned
into mashed potatoes.

...

510

I'm cold. It isn't freezing, but the clouds from earlier this morning have hung around.

What was it? Sometimes, when people offer advice, it isn't advice based off of experice, or real life struggles, the advice is based off of thought experiments or ideas, or even second or third hand accounts that themselves may or may not have originally been thought experiments or ideas to begin with. And nobody ever makes this clear, that the advice is based on experience, a thought experiment, an article, or a second hand account. Regardless of thr source, you're going to be responsible for the consequences of taking and acting on that advice.

I was offering advice, or maybe not offering advice, but offering an account of a number of struggles I faced the first few times I bought a car, and had to deal with repairs and things like that.

I don't want to call it advice. It's more like sharing experiences. I was sharing experiences, struggles, and actions I took in response to the struggles and challenges I faced.

Anyway, someone else interrupted me, and started sharing hypothetical ideas and shit, and it irked me that so many people pass off ideas as workable courses of action.

...

511

For whatever reason, it seems that things aren't really going my way right now. I'm too tired and too fatigued to really do anything, and I don't think that this is due to physical exhaustion so much as a feeling that things might not improve for me. A feeling that things won't get any better, that things are the way that they are, and that I might as well just enjoy the day sleeping. I didn't get anything done these past few days, I just napped. My car's repairs are completed, so, I can go and pick it up tomorrow. But when I think about it, I have done better this week than the last few weeks. I haven't spent as much on going out to eat. So I guess that's better. I just can't shake the idea that life is harder than it needs to be, and that life should be a fuck load easier.

Sometimes I think that I just need to have the right attitude about things. It's not easy, and, it's easier said than done.

I think that the issue that I'm having is, not knowing exactly where to begin. I'm fucking tired all the fucking time.

It never feels like anything is ever stable enough to really.

follow me down the road
where it turns
I don't even know where the fuck to begin.
and people hide
follow me somewhere
and dogs
It's not like I don't have a ton of shit that I have to deal with right now.
eat doggie treats
follow me

Life is really full of chicken and egg paradoxes to getting ahead.
here you are
and the taste of
the skittles
I'm getting a lot of spam comments on my blog.

For whatever reason, it seems that things aren't really going my way right now. I'm too tired and too fatigued to really do anything, and I don't think that this is due to physical exhaustion so much as a feeling that things might not improve for me. A feeling that things won't get any better, that things are the way that they are, and that I might as well just enjoy the day sleeping. I didn't get anything done these past few days, I just napped. My car's repairs are completed, so, I can go and pick it up tomorrow. But when I think about it, I have done better this week than the last few weeks. I haven't spent as much on going out to eat. So I guess that's better. I just can't shake the idea that life is harder than it needs to be, and that life should be a fuck load easier.

...

512

and a farm full of chickens

Sometimes I think that I just need to have the right attitude about things. It's not easy, and, it's easier said than done.

in the face of a clown
and heard of goats

I think that the issue that I'm having is, not knowing exactly where to begin. I'm super tired all the live long day all the time.

what we felt when the
wind was blowing
It never feels like anything is ever stable enough to really.

and we cannot tell
each other
I don't even know where the fuck to begin.

better than it was
the other day
It's not like I don't have a ton of shit that I have to deal with right now.

it has all ready been
and cannot be
Life is really full of chicken and egg paradoxes to getting ahead.

this cannot get
any worse than
I'm getting a lot of spam comments on my blog.

...

513

I don't know what it is, but unless I spend my entire break chain smoking, I'm in a bad fucking mood.

I'm kind of not sure about how to feel about reapplying to the ATA SDE program again. Especially after failing to get in the first time.

Well, good news is that I only have 5000 more to top off my IRA and HSA, bad news is I only have 4 weeks left to do it.

...

514

I'm feeling goofy, and irritable, simultaneously. I signed up for overtime today. It came in last minute. With all the catastrophes I've been facing recently, it really makes the most sense.

...

515

I was going to buy a few denim long sleeve shirts, but I decided against it. I'm not sure if I really want to change what I wear just because I bought two pairs of jeans. The issue is that if I buy clothes piece by piece, or even if I buy clothes a few pieces at a time, then there's the chance that my outfits won't evolve a whole hell of a lot. I want to change my look, but. Well, I'm not really sure. The other issue is that I'm not totally sure if denim shirts are, by convention, tucked in or not. Anyway. I have a bunch of stuff I have to do. I took another overtime shift today. I honestly hope that extra overtime keep coming through at least until tax season ends. I have 3 or 4 pay periods left to top off my IRA, depending on how close I want to cut it. I don't really want to spend to much money unnecessarily, but sometimes I just get in those moods. What else is on my mind? I have to get my credit card balances back down. I have to top off my IRA for 2021. I have routine maintenance on my car that the mechanic recommended be taken care of sometime soon. I have to complete my ATA SDE application.

...

516

Okay, so, what do I have to deal with right now? A bunch of stuff. A bunch of various stuff that I need to take care of. I voted on a number of things tonight, but, none of these agendas are very interesting, most of the shareholder proposals don't have enough information attached for me to make an adequate voting decision, so, I usually abstain.

...

517

I was going to buy more jeans, but there isn't a sale, or, whatever sale existed when I made my previous purchase, it's no longer active, which is a nightmare. They are back up to sticker price. Or, only slightly below sticker price. Sucks. I only bought one pair of each because I needed to test the sizes. Well, even though I want to buy more jeans, I have a hell of a lot of pants, and I really don't think that I need any more pants, so I'll just wait for now, there are plenty of other things for me to take care of, so I'll leave that alone for now.

...

518

What am I thinking about right now? Well, I went grocery shopping a handful of times over the past few days.

The one benefit that I am noticing about going grocery shopping is that it is allowing me more time to stay at home, well, obviously, but, I spend less time going out when I have food at home.

Going out to eat isn't always a pleasant experience anyway.

there were so many
jerks that I came across
that I was unhappy with my meal.

I've been throwing out stuff that I don't need, and throwing out things that I haven't had any use for, or, haven't used, and stuff that just seems to be taking up space. I remember when I was working at Fastenal, years ago, and I was working at a location at Santa Cruz, and I was clearing out old equipment that I could have sworn was from the 80's or 90's or something, and the General Manager at the Santa Cruz location suggested that we keep the stuff, just in case we needed it later, rather than sending to the centralized IT department or company equipment depot or whatever.

Some of the things I'm holding on to are things that I think I might use in the future, or, thought that I might use at some point in the future, but, there is really no knowing for sure. For example, I threw away a few cans of spray paint, and I really don't think that I'll ever use spray paint. I don't remember what I bought these for.

The reason why any specific function is used depends on what you are trying to accomplish, changing the color, height, or cropping a picture, or whatever.

But the exact spelling of a function isn't something that's in anyway really logical, correct functions and their spellings have to be looked up in what's called a documentation library.

A documentation library for a programming language works in much the same way as a dictionary does for a regular language does.

So if you're asking how I chose the functions I did, I pulled them from a documentation library.

...

519

I've continued to throw away stuff that I don't really need to make additional space for things that I do need, or things that I will use. I got rid of a pair of pants that I was painting after realizing that it was something that I probably would never wear. It was a pair of khaki pants that I was painting a greenish blue, a teal or turquoise. I just got rid of them. Small other things here and there, pillow cases, even though I don't have any pillows. Dishes. One thing about throwing away my dishes, is that I rarely used any of them. I don't know what else to get rid of. I just have too much stuff that I don't use.

...

520

I'm about 1500 dollars away from topping off my IRA. Actually, I'm exactly 1500 away from topping off my IRA. I have 2 weeks to finish the process. I think that April 18th is the last day to do it, and my last paycheck before that date is on April 15th. I can do 750 per week for the next two weeks from my paychecks, and that would pretty much leave no money for anything else. Maybe a little over 200 bucks per week for the next two weeks, and that's assuming I get the maximum amount of overtime that I can get. The holiday incentives are no longer active, so I guess most people aren't rushing to take overtime, and maybe the facility is also more willing to offer overtime at a lower rate. I honestly prefer having a larger weekly check at a lower hourly rate, than a higher hourly rate, with less money at the end of the week.

I owe about 400 bucks in taxes, and the payment is due on April 18th. I really don't want to take any more money out of my Robinhood account for the remaining 1500 that I need to top off my IRA, most of the 10000 that I needed to top off my IRA and HSA came from my Robinhood account. I can do this with upcoming paychecks, if I can get the maximum amount of overtime that I can get. 

So I'll spend the next two paychecks topping off my IRA, I need at least one or two of my paychecks this month for paying rent, that's either April 22nd, or April 20th, or both, depending on overtime, and then, In May, I need to add an additional 2000 to my HSA for the 2022 contribution year. Normally I would wait until 2023, or the beginning of 2023 until Tax Day to do it, but, because of the stock split for Amazon, I need to round out my fractional share to a full share.

I think that my biggest mistake for the 2021 tax year was taking gains on positions that I didn't need to take, resulting in taxable income that I didn't need to make taxable. I had realized short-term capital gains that I didn't need to realize. This was mainly due to going from one index ETF into another index ETF. Pointless. I won't be doing that dumb shit again.

So after I finish the IRA stuff for 2021, and the HSA stuff for 2022, I'll have 2 things to focus on for the remainder of the year: start saving money in my Robinhood account, and accelerating the reduction of my debt load. Most of the increase in my debt is due to the road trip to Louisiana, and the disasters that happened then, and in the following weeks. Much of my debt is at zero percent interest, and the portion that isn't at zero percent interest is effectively at zero percent interest because I pay it off every month. Once everything in terms on contributions is out of the way, I have to figure out how much additional pay down, how much additional debt I can pay down each month.

And then there are other issues. One issue is renewing my lease, and the other is the ATA SDE program. There is also the desire to get a new car, shelling out money to take care of my existing car, and relocating, and all of these issues are somewhat interconnected. There is also the issue of Career Choice classes for software development that I anticipate taking.

When I think about it, I don't really want to shell out any additional money for my existing car, most of what needs to be taken care of, at this point, would be non-mechanical issues, there is body damage that I've never gotten fixed, and that I really don't want to spend money getting fixed, and, when I think about it, I really don't want to get a new car either. I think that my issue is that my car is just so ratty that I feel that, just for the sake of appearance, it might make sense either to shell out money to fix it's appearance, or to get a new one. It's similar to wanting to get new clothes, it's about preventability. I don't need to look fancy or anything. I don't buy expensive clothes, and I wouldn't buy an expensive car. Maybe this is something I just won't spend too much time thinking about.

...

521

I'm frustrated. I face so many of the same challenges over and over again.

...

522

The main struggle is having enough energy to get things done in my personal life.

It's the course work, my progress always finds a point where things stall for me.

Sometimes I feel like it should be easy, and that I'm just too fucking dumb to grasp the material. And yet, also, that the explanations and instructions are just totally incomplete.

...

523

I'm making a point to get into a routine. Waking up at Noon and running errands and doing chores or whatever, working on stuff. I need to make sure I use my time, rather than just using my time to sleep, but, I definitely need my beauty sleep.

There was an issue today at the grocery store, where, I forgot my wallet at home, so I had to make a trip all the way back home, pick up my wallet, then head back to the grocery store and pay for everything. I almost wanted to say forget it, but, I figured, I would have to shell out the same amount of time to get groceries later on anyway, so, just get it done.

It took an hour for the initial trip, and the extra step of going back home and getting my wallet required another 40 minutes. Nightmare, but, oh well.

...

524

What am I thinking right now? What is on my mind? Well, the IRA stuff is finally complete, so, all the stuff relating to tax season are over now. The main financial issue I'll be working on until the end of the year will be to pay down the balances of my Chase credit cards, which are still kind of maxed out right now. There's the stuff for my HSA account for 2022, but, it's not super important, and I think that I can life with myself if I don't accomplish this particular goal, but let's think about something real quick: the Chase crap isn't really due until December, and the HSA isn't really due, or anything, but should get done before the end of May, so I'm weighing these things, the HSA stuff isn't really important, but it's urgent, and the Chase thing is important, but not really urgent.

Then there is the dating crap. Having a girlfriend, or, just having someone I'm sleeping with on a regular basis is something that I think I would really be delighted by, but, it isn't a priority in terms of importance or urgency, so, it's hard for me to say whether I'll really put a whole lot of focus or emphasis into this particular thing. Browsing the dating app, and sometimes while having conversations with women on the dating app, there are questions like: "What did you accomplish today?" and "Where do you see yourself in the next 5 years?"

I'd like to think that finishing my taxes the other week was an accomplishment, and I'd like to think that topping off my IRA and HSA were really, kind of, nice things to accomplish, but, these things aren't really exciting. In fact, these sort of goals and accomplishments are plain boring. I want to think that, I have a goal, and my goal is to pay off my Chase credit cards before the end of the year, and I think that, to do this would be kind of a nice accomplishment. Again, this kind of accomplishment isn't really exciting.

Right now I thought about accomplishing something, like, registering a work with the United States Copyright Office, but, I'll forget about that for now, and Maybe put it on my Calendar.

Well, I fucking did it, submitted a work of literature to the United States Copyright office for registration.

...

525

I signed up for a dating app, and paid the subscription fee, but, it's already starting to feel frustrating, and it's already starting to feel pointless. This is a nightmare. Dating is a nightmare. I don't know what to do about this.

I think that the reason why I thought about, and ultimately tried to give this another shot is because some of the people I chat with suggested that I do it, but, I'm facing the same fucking problems I've always faced.

I just don't like doing this. I thought that I told myself that I wouldn't be doing this again. Finding my soulmate is a total non-freaking priority. Finding true love is such a back-burner life goal of mine.

I'm at my apartment complex, and, there's no fucking parking, with it being the weekend, it's not clear to me when anything will free up. Life is full of these little irritations.

Anyway.
the center
of the earth is
where all the people
hide when things
go bad on Earth.

...

526

How on earth do I deal with this? I have 3 pay periods until the end of the month. What do I have to take care of? Rent and credit cards. Mainly. I really don't want to bleed any more cash.

...

527

I'm tired, well, I was tired. But, um. I'm just thinking. I can't believe how hot and humid it is. I'm not sweating, but this weather really sucks. I really feel like I never have enough fucking energy. Or, any extra energy. I do work long hours, and, being tired is normal in these cases.

...

528

I had 2 energy drinks today. I remember trying to cut down a while ago, and I just haven't been able to stay very alert or energetic without them.

There is a Circle K gas station on my way home that I've stopped at several times over the past few days. I still really like QuikTrip, but, I feel awkward going to the one near my house since I worked there, and, sort of quit abruptly.

What I couldn't stand was being switched from task to task. I would be in the middle of one task and reassigned before the task was completed, repeatedly, and then, knocked for leaving a previous task incomplete. Or, in some cases, I'd be rushed during one task, and then knocked for having skipped steps or having cut corners in some way or for missing some minor detail, when, I had I focused on the details, the task wouldn't have been completed in a timely manner. I figured that this abuse was simply either part of the culture, or, part of the process or something. So, I figured that someone else could deal with this. What a nightmare. Anyway.

Sometimes I reflect on how one thing or another turned out, whether a social interaction or whatever, and sometimes I think, maybe, this or that response was suboptimal, or something. Maybe I didn't pass the test. Maybe I should have read about this specific thing beforehand, but I didn't and therefore didn't take the correct course of action.

Sometimes I think about the things in life that annoy me. It's nearly everything.

...

529

I'm somewhat tired. I had an energy drink. Mango! There is one by Monster, but, I realized that it isn't sugar free, so I figured that I wouldn't buy it again, or I'd switch back to one of the other ones. But there is one by BANG that was mango, and sugar free. Some of the flavors of energy drinks are so synthetic that, they don't really fit into any kind of description.

I'm super tired, I drank 2 energy drinks and they were highly ineffective. I requested the rest of the night off.

What have I tried? In terms of improving my life situation? Sometimes events and circumstances seem to converge to prevent me from taking one path in life or another. 

The closest I've ever been to pursuing graduate school was when I was in Las Vegas, and, whatever life choices I made there, and, whatever challenges and temptations I was presented with didn't make attending graduate school particularly feasible.

...

530

nice people
do nice things
but mean people
do mean things
and everything
that people do is different

I have something to be happy about. The employer match to my 401(K) is completely vested.

I don't want to get too far ahead of myself. Sometimes, excessive planning for the future creates problems if things don't go as planned. I guess what I mean is that an excessively detailed plan can become a problem if certain small details don't turn out the way that they were expected to turn out.

Sometimes 
you meet new
people and most of them
are not nice
and most of them
are playing pool with
a ball.

Sometimes I really enjoy how in-the-toilet things are. So what's in-the-toilet? Well, nothing, really, I'm probably making a bigger deal of it than I need to.

Playa del Vergas in Communist Cuba during the Castro Regime

Dovotchka
Babuskha

Soviets Gone Wild
Easter Break Edition

We went to dinner and he wouldn't stop
playing with his kielbasa

He wanted to offload his 
holdings of North Korean
Won at a rate of 1 South 
Korean Dong for 1 North 
Korean Won

I had a brief case full of Chinese Yuan,
and, unfortunately, I was not wearing
panties at the time, I didn't think that
the ever so visible outline of my Northern
Californian Schlong would cause the Dictator

but he paused a minute and started
playing with his kielbasa.

I was thinking about writing a funny story about meeting Vladimir Putin during the Cold War. The section above is a bunch of scribbles that I came up with.

There seems to be this wall that I can't seem to get through, or over, when it comes to studying this material. In many ways, it just doesn't seem like it's sufficiently. It doesn't seem like it's complete. I have to find the information, the correct stuff somewhere else. Maybe I just never really developed the right study habits when I was in school, or ever.

...

531

I would like to go grocery shopping, but the question I have for myself is: Do I need to go grocery shopping now? I want to go grocery shopping right now, but do I need to go grocery shopping right now? Are there any issues that can arise from putting off grocery shopping? and are there any issues that can arise from going grocery shopping when I don't need to? Or from going grocery shopping sooner than I need to?

Well, let's say I put off grocery shopping. As of right now, I have both the time, and energy to go grocery shopping. I also have the money to go grocery shopping, but, I don't want to spend any money on groceries right now. I have enough groceries right now. So do I really need to go grocery shopping? The issue that I can think of is that, later, I might not have the time, or the energy to go grocery shopping. Thinking about the future, I might have the time, but not the energy, or I might have the energy, but not the time, or I might have the energy at the wrong time of day in the sense that I might have the energy to go grocery shopping at 11:00 PM, but the grocery store isn't open at that hour.

I really do not want to spend any money right now. Or, I guess what I mean is, I want to postpone any spending that I have to make into the future, or as far into the future as I can. There are these times, though, when I'm hungry as hell, at some weird time of day, and if I don't have anything to eat, then I have to go out to eat, and that can cause me to spend more money than I really want to spend.

I have to think: do I really like going out to eat? The answer isn't always a yes. Sometimes I like going out to eat, and sometimes I do not like going out to eat, the answer varies, depending on my mood, and sometimes the answer varies depending on how pleasant or unpleasant my last dining experience was.

Sometimes you
think that the object of 
here you are

I think that the last time I filed a copyright application, the most recent application, was for my #putinpullout series of tweets on Twitter. I was actually going to file a copyright application for my innocuous posts series, but, there were a few posts that weren't things that I wrote, and, when I was reading them, I realized that a lot of the things I wrote, were things that I don't want to remember right now, or, I mean, maybe memories that I don't want to think about right now.

and there you will be for 
the next few hours and still you will wonder

I noticed that my electricity account has a credit, or balance due to me, of 5 cents, or exactly 1 nickel, or even precisely .05 dollars. This is clearly a conspiracy on the part of none other than Vladimir Putin! to undermine my SANITY!

where are the things
that you left
when you fled from
the city of places
you liked and didn't like.

I noticed that my electricity account has a credit, or balance due to me, of 5 cents, or exactly 1 nickel, or even precisely .05 dollars. This is clearly a conspiracy on the part of none other than Vladimir Putin! to undermine my SANITY! 

Well we all know that Vladimir Putin did not. #putinpullout! He will never leave
and he will never admit defeat
because he. won't

Shit. Let's see. Hobbies include coin and stamp collecting. I want to buy some stamps, but, I really don't need any, I have more than I can use, and I really don't know if I really need any.

I have work later. I spent all of yesterday sleeping. More or less. and now I'm not really able to sleep. because I'm not tired. and I'm not tired, because I spent the entire other day sleeping.

see here is where
other things become things
that you are familiar with

Other hobbies? Reading. Writing. Watching Movies. Writing is the least expensive of these hobbies.

...

532

I'm overwhelmed by this feeling that I'm missing out on something, or even a lot of things.

Am I missing out? I don't know. If I am missing out, does it really fucking matter?

Is there something that I need right now? Something that I'm neglecting?

...

533

It's Sunday morning after an event at the stadium, and I'm just not able to find parking at my apartment complex again. Pain oh baby what a pain. It's just the way it goes, I guess. I went to eat at Waffle House this morning.

It's so damn annoying when there's nowhere to park. It's not clear to me why this happens, or what I should do about it. My guess is that there are more people living here than before. 

I wonder about what to do, if there is anything that I can do. Or what. If, maybe, this is just my life right now.

It's not a big deal.

Jesus. To me. This means leave this place, but where the hell do I go?

This is a nightmare. A real total absolute nightmare. Maybe I need a change, but what change?
sleep
and you will have nightmares
about things you are scared of.

Where would I go? I don't what else to do. I don't know where to go. I am totally out of fucking money. I really am.

There isn't anything that requires me to stay here.

I was finally able to get parking after circling my complex for about an hour and a half.
she didn't think anything about it
she liked it but thought
it was all
a little crazy.
I guess it's also Easter. So, I had the odds stacked against me when trying to park this morning.

...

534

What the hell am I thinking about right now? Well, nothing really. I went out to get groceries the other day, and I went to a place that had a fish section, with a fish frying service, and I bought a whole catfish, and that was really nice. I think that I'll go again. It was really nice. I usually just keep canned fish at home, so having fresh fish, fried, was really nice, and it was nice to have something other than fileted fish.

One of the canned fish products that I bought the other day was roasted eel. I usually buy canned items only if they have a pull-tab to open the can, but for some reason I bought this thing, and it didn't have a pull tab. I didn't realize I had a can opener, so I tried opening up the can with a slotted / flat head screw driver, and a kitchen knife, but then I found my can opener, and opened the can with the can opener.

I bought 1 dented can of luncheon meat, and, it was rotten inside. I guess I won't be doing that again. Waste of money.

My Robinhood portfolio is almost completely Index ETF's. This has been something that I've wanted for several months now, and it's finally there. I have a few shares in companies that I wrote put options for, and I have a few put-options that I'm guessing I'll eventually have assignment on.

...

535

I'm feeling sad. I don't really know why.

Think of where
you are and
where you want
to be and think
of how everytime
you ignore her
when she is trying
to get something
out of you, things
go not well.

I need to see about renewing my lease. I received a notice about doing so, even though it doesn't end until the end of July.

...

536

I renewed my lease. It wasn't much more than what I was paying, but I always went with an annual, rather than a month to month lease. 

The month to month rates have gone up in a big way.

...

537

There are two things that I need to do. First.

Well. There are two things that I need to refrain from. One is contributing to my IRA prematurely. I have to remember that I'm not going to see that money for about 30 years, 26 years at the soonest, so I shouldn't get too excited about it. I have until mid-April of 2023 to finish contributing for 2022. The second thing I need to refrain from is paying off my zero interest balances off prematurely, and just focus on the near-term challenges. The zero interest period doesn't end for about 10 months.

And then there is a third thing as well. I have to refrain from too much bad behavior. When it all comes down to it, I don't enjoy bad behavior too much anyway, so, why bother? 

Sometimes I just feel like the people around me experience life in a way that I just. I feel like I'm not enjoying life as much as everyone else.

Let's think. Yeah. Near term, what are my challenges? Well, I have to keep my finances in order.

I need to make sure I don't get too distracted with things.

I think that it can be easy to become unhappy, and, when I'm unhappy, I feel that I have to offset the unhappiness by enjoying myself, and I think that more often than not the choices I make in how to enjoy myself create problems and in some cases, more unhappiness later.

One example of this was the Louisiana road trip, which was a huge disaster. A disaster that I managed to survive, but a disaster that I'll be suffering from for a while.

...

538

Okay. So. What am I thinking? I'm just. Fucking. Facing near-term challenges. Getting these balances down is the main thing. Juggling. Headache. What am I thinking? What is my. Idea?

I figured I'd start work late, rather than leave work early since it's somewhat difficult to find parking at my apartment complex when I get home kind of early in the morning, like, 3 AM or whatever.

...

539

I'm tired.
sleepy.
i want to
lay down
and put my head down. tune out.

...

540

Today is the last day of the work week, I have tomorrow off. I have to spend most of the day running errands, or working on personal stuff.

...

541

Let's see. Day off. Sleeping. The only errand that I really needed to run, was to get groceries, and the only grocery item that I needed was soda, but I'll go ahead and hold off on getting soda for now, because I don't really need to get soda.

...

542

So one shareholder proposal that I did vote in favor for was for the recapitalization proposal for the Ford Motor Company, where each share gets one vote, which I thought should usually be the case, even though I'm aware that certain class shares have different voting rights, and some shares have no voting rights at all. There was a statement in favor stating something like, the Ford family has an outsized level of control of the company relative to the amount of capital at stake, the other statement was that it's somewhat of a standard practice among newer companies to convert founder's shares into common shares after a set number of years.

Thinking about the other side of the discussion, that the shares should not be recapitalized, I thought that, maybe, sometimes businesses stay private forever like S. C. Johnson & Son, Inc. and maybe the reason they do that is so that the founding family doesn't lose control of the company, and maybe having share classes with different voting multiples is the solution to taking private companies public and keeping more or less everyone involved happy.

I don't really think I own more than a handful of shares of any particular company, but, in many ways I really enjoy reading the shareholder proposals and all that, more than the rest of the proxy statement.

What was I reading about? I was reading about cryptocurrency mining, and what it said was: it's more or less not going to happen, Kenneth. 

It was basically this: hanging out by the river, panning for gold, probably won't pay your bills, or you stock market loss porn addiction, gold can only be mined on an industrial scale, and in the same manner, the golden cryptocurrencies can't really be mined out of your apartment, they have to be mined on an industrial scale.

Anyway, I guess that settles it. I want to say that I have made money collecting aluminum cans, but, nothing that would pay my bills.

What else, there was a cultural reference in an article on NPR that I found amusing, so, I'll make one too, and it's going to be naughty:

I've never made love to a woman who asked me to hit it just a little bit softer, I've never made love to a woman who asked me to take it out and put it in her butt. It has just never happened. Seriously. never. and I'm actually not lying when I say that.

Anyway.

Haha. I just read Robinhood Snacks, and I'm just thinking: what a total monster.

Anyway.

I think I'm done with the Vladimir Putin series.

But. Going back to Robinhood Snacks: I ask myself if I feel like any less of a person for being part of the proletariat? The answer is no, I don't.

Sometimes I think, like, what would I do if I were big-time? Probably just stay home and write things, and not give a shit about making money doing it, but I can more or less do that now.

Sometimes there is really no sense in working toward what you already have. 

I remember reading, in Herodotus, I think, something about Solon and Croesus, and a conversation they had about who is the happiest person on earth, and Solon said that it wasn't Croesus, It was Tellus, some nobody in the City of Athens.

And I think. I should seek to be more like Tellus then Croesus if I want to be truly happy, but I'm sure Croesus had it good. You know. That publicly known inventor of Gold Coins!

I think. I don't feel the least bit bad about the my stock market losses, even if I do have to be more prudent with my budget and all that for the time being.

When I think about this man's super yacht or that man's space ship, wishing me more like that guy dating that superstar, I think: that's just envy fucking with me. Fuck envy! You know.

Maybe envy is the kind of thing that drives people, you know, and maybe it can be a good thing sometimes, but, I've learned that, sometimes you just have to be aware of your limits, sometimes you just have to be aware of the things that make you unhappy or the things that drive you crazy or your obsessions.

I think I just saw someone totally awesome! 

Um. Well. I think he bought the micro blogging platform because. He can't just spend one or two satoshis on an asset, he has to spend entire bitcoins. He can't really do anything small time, now can he? He's have to add a whole lot of zeros to whatever he does. He has to have the biggest micro blog ever. That's just his personality.

this is strange
to see myself writing about
wanting to do a puppet show.

because some of the
things that I've been
wanting to see
are puppet shows.

I have an idea for the talent show.

My idea is a puppet show that pays homage to one of the MGM films. My favorite is the 10 Commandments, but I think, so and so might like space odyssey.

But I also want to look at the catalog to see what my options are.

So what else am I going to say. Um. About Robinhood. I do like using the app. I enjoy the platform. and I believe in the idea of making investing more accessible to more people, however. and just to mad libs another movie from generations ago. A lot of people who stumble upon investing are like, you know, a kid who came across his father's handgun. I managed to successfully shoot myself in the foot, but I'm fully aware things could have been a lot worse. and maybe things will continue to get worse. I don't really freaking know.

I'm trying to fall asleep, but I cant. I just can't stop chatting with myself. That last #putinpullout! was such an anti-climax it was a total non-orgasms. A micro-orgasm. It sucked to the extent that. I'm not sure I can even show my face around Twitter for quite some time.

It. was. horrible. gosh.

same as before only
less so because it
wasn't what you 
thought it was or
what you think
you know about it.

...

543 

and when you see how it all makes
best of
the taste of the 
worst of the bananas
or the mangoes.

...

544

here you hear me
and here you are
hearing me out
and there i was
eating you out.
like a mango

...

545

Alright. So here's the nightmare I was having: basically. I'm basically sent to the Russian Federation, and Vladimir Putin makes me apply for a scholarship, funded by yandex.ru, to Vladimir Putin State University, which is free for dipshits like me anyway, he just wants to give a hard time. he makes me get a doctorate in Russian, and then I have to explain to him, in Russian, why my tweets are funny.

and then. Once I finally do that, he sends me to Vladimir Putin State Conservatory to study Rachmaninoff, and, he makes me compose two-thirds of a concerto, and perform it on a micro-piano, 

and for some reason. he's legitimately disappointed with my performance.

and then he sends me back to the United States. Completely unharmed. Of course. To learn how to fish. And he asks me to send him an American Catfish. 

and then he sends it right back. With a painting of a sad face. Saying. That I actually send him a bottle of orange juice, but his suspicion is that someone must have intercepted the package en route to to Vladivostok, where he was feeding his pet Orca, who is likewise disappointed that i sent him a bottle of orange juice, however, when i look at what's in the box, it's a fucking catfish.

The orca. Named. Wilson Libre. Wanted to eat fish. And not drink orange juice.

I don't remember.

I was listening to a kind of. Arts and culture section on the BBC, and, one of the historians makes a comment about. Like how everyone and their mother compares poor leadership to Neronic behavior. And I was really butt hurt when I she said that.

Good lord. What else was I thinking. Instead of oracular, maybe I should have said, sagacious.

Remember, try not to take

I'm really tired.

Greetings Mitsubishi:

I'm writing because I've recently had an issue with my vehicle that
will require repairs, and the costs that I've been quoted are
extremely high. I've taken my vehicle to a service center at a
Mitsubishi Dealership and I've been told that the repair expenses
would not be covered by the warranty, this is frustrating because the
main reason why I bought this vehicle new, and from a dealership, was
the understanding that these mechanical issues would be covered under
the manufacturer warranty.

My car has around 40,000 miles, and I've been the only owner of this
vehicle for the past 4 years. I've been told by the service center
manager that the issue with my car is a clutch failure, and that the
clutch isn't covered, but the transmission would be, but that there is
no issue with the transmission. To me, a warranty that covers
transmission failures, but not clutch failures, is like a health plan
that covers the testicles, but not the scrotum.

I'm really hoping that something can be done about this potentially
large repair bill that I'm facing. My car is being repaired at Hurst
Autoplex Mitsubishi at 240 NE Loop 820, Hurst, TX 76053. My VIN is
ML32A3HJ0KH011768. I'm working with Nathan Hausser at the service
center.

Sincerely,

Kenneth Larot Yamat
816-724-5293

What was it. funny joke, I think. I don't want to offend anyone. but this guy. He went the Willy Wonka way of selling crack rock: candy bars. I'm tired. I know this happened for real, but, it was kind of a strange kind of nightmare. I ended up at the Asian Buffet here in Arlington, TX, and I ate some food. I'm kind of tired. I took Sunday off.

Oh another funny thing. I worked for a vacuum cleaner company owned by the, um, willy wonka of the American zaibatsu, or, um, I guess the willy wonka of the business of amalgamating businesses, I worked there for 3 days, I think, and I didn't sell a single vacuum cleaner, I wasn't paid any commissions either! homeboy got those three days for free!

Sales, can be a difficult business. or a difficult profession.

my father was a kind of. willy wonka of the east side. i remember it seeming that selling candy looked so easy. or. going door to door seemed like such an easy way to sell things. when i was a kid. as an adult? i don't know. direct sales seemed more challenging in a residential setting, but in a commercial setting, it didn't seem as challenging. the main thing with in person sales in a residential setting, is that people seem hostile to other people knocking on their door and stuff like that.

even with me. I remember. Some guy was doing some kind of water thing, and, i just opened the door completely naked. I was irritated. and I was trying to sleep. and the guy knocked on my door. trying to sell me. WATER!

I already got infinity of that water stuff. for free! and I drink it right from the tap. like a man. as every school child knows. the municipal water supply is delicious! 

I'm tired. I took Sunday off, but, I didn't really get much sleep. Last week I drank a whole bunch of energy drinks and maybe that plays into why I didn't get much sleep, and the lack of sleep plays into why I'm tired.

i was thinking of the 10 commandments, the film, and the scene where moses is raising the obelisk, and i was thinking about how this is an example of taking calculated risks, and, how to handle criticism, and, how to delight people.

I'm thinking about. Las Vegas, and my time there. i think that my mom wanted me to go back there, but for me, it's just not the right place to be.

...

546

What was I thinking about?
"Long, and hard, is the road out of hell."
What sin did I commit?
In-austere behavior! Okay okay! I've maxed the hell out of my credit cards! 
I'll eat, you know, a wise man from the Midwest once said: rice and beans!
You will not quote me, kenneth, because even though I did say that, I would prefer.
Alright you're quoting me, but I don't really like quotation marks.

More nightmares. I know it's just rain. but. It's freaking me out.

Alright. Ive just been schooled. So here's the catharsis. Of this nightmare.

Im going to go back to college. Im going to Study business. Like my father. I'll write poetry as a side hustle. And make sure to make absolutely no money whatsoever doing it.

I'll call my mother and father.

I would like to thank everyone who taught me this wonderful lesson.

What was it? The idea that vaccination goes all the way back to Mithridates of Pontus.

the statements
that were made
and not made
and the culture of
pearls and the
cultured bacons.

So I should go back to college. And i shouldn't worry too much about going into debt, and i shouldn't worry too much About how im going to pay for it.

And this. Old guy. hehehe. On NPR could probably 

The culture of understatement.

The bella figura.

Things we know about life. Now.

During the last economic catastrophe I remember. I was still in college. And. I remember one of my professors blaming the PIGS of europe. Portugal Italy Greece and Spain. They spend too much money!

...

547

Well, I'm not sure where my parents phone numbers are, but, if I could call them, I would.
My parents are good parents.
Honest feedback about my mother?

She always accused me of acting like a monk, but she clearly wanted me to behave exactly like a saint. She told everyone that I'm antisocial, when the truth is that I'm just shy and introverted.

And honestly. I don't think that i should have to keep in touch with my family, do they keep in touch with their family in the Philippines? Probably not in the last 8 or 9 generations. At some point, we just lose touch, and that's just the way it goes.

...

548

best of all you can see
that I've been telling you
what you need to
see well here it
is.

Here's a poem
Vladimir Putin is a total Jerk
Who says the US sells satellites on sticks
Maybe, indeed, these 
are words in your mouth
Be glad its not my massive 7.5 inch
Super Willie!
Your behavior in Europe is definitely the obscenest:
Hope you never taste my super Weiner sweetness!
Here's a poem
Vladimir Putin is a total punk
He said the US sells satellites on sticks
Maybe, indeed, these 
are words in your mouth
Be glad its not my massive 7.5 inch
Super Johnson!

...

549

I took care of the parking issue, renewing my lease, paying my card. I registered my car,
Bought stamps.

I don't know what the future holds, but, I've founds stamps useful.
I want to buy some coins, and maybe some money.
What else?

...

550

I would like to take a nap.
and get some rest
and really put my head down.
yeah. that's really what I would
like to do.

...






























...

📮5892 Losee RD STE 132 PMB 176, North Las Vegas, NV 89081-6200 📧 info@chestnutandhazel.com ‎‎☎+1-816-724-5293

...

106 

im at the seven eleven parking lot where i park and rest almost every work day. before work.
i remember what it was. there was a guy who was talking about the aftermath of a breakup. he said he had like. a series. of one night stands for months after the breakup. i mentioned that for me. ive never had that. like women just never used me for sex. ever. and i had to wonder. i wondered if. would i ever seek out relationships if i were successful as a playboy.

i was trying to make sense of his story. the breakup. the hookups. then the new relationship. sometimes the stories that people tell seem fabricated. and sometimes it isnt clear why. whats the angle. why make something up. i dont know. sometimes it's fun to play pretend. and sometimes it's fun to say pretend. make stuff up. imagine scenarios.

it's something i hear over and over. though. people always say that. people always say that they go on a boning spree after a breakup. so i guess. even if i cant personally say that I've gone on boning sprees. I've come across the story often enough that I'm sure its true. or I'm sure it could be true.

i don't like being nosey. and i don't like when people are nosey with me. but. there really are few things to talk about with other people other than personal details. where you are from. what jobs you've had. relationships. plans for the future.


...

1

This is kind of annoying. I haven't 
really messed around with paper and ink
in such a long time: here I am, having
a total blast! This process really stinks:

First, write it up, then type, then print or post,
just another piece of shit thing to do
with time I have to flush down the toilet.
Quicker to snap, then upload to the host,
and then somehow this makes its way to you,
reading on your phone as you take a shit.

This is just another time in my life
where this is the only task for me to
pursue, and, filled with turmoil and strife
I tattoo these sheets of paper in blue.

Actually Writing Again
and it really isn't what I was hoping for it to be.
it is boring and I do not like it.

...

2

I went to jack in the box to get tacos again. this is something that i may have to do for a while. i need to keep my expenses low. i really do. nightmare. pain. i have to stop eating out at restaurants for the time being. i really want to sell or liquidate as much of my stuff as i can, but i'm not sure i will get around to it. what i think would be kind of a loss is throwing it away or giving it away like i did when i left Missouri. what i mean is. waiting to get rid of all my extra stuff until the absolute last minute, and not have the chance to recoup any money from it.

...

3

I go into work in just a few minutes. About the writing project. I have 2 ideas. Well. 3 maybe. 1 is a series of funny hypothetical experiences. 2 is a series of funny prospectus caricatures. 3 is a series just slice of life poems.

I've reviewed some of my old poems. And ive already done idea 3. It's probably the thing i write about most often. And most of the poems that i discarded and dont have any more. And couldnt track down were on that topic. Or of that style.

...

4

Somber music played by guys at the pool,
I'm listening from my sweltering room,
as the sun beats down, the water is cool,
I'd join them to alleviate my gloom.

I have this totally ridiculous 
thought that if I can't really sleep right now
then perhaps I should try to finish this
series of epic sonnets on the Dow

the Standard and Poor's, the Russell, and the 
Wilshire. Dumb old index crap, I'd like to
do something more sophisticated, a
person like me, though, consistently blue

in mood, testicles, temperament, and chips,
writing these sad songs with my hands and lips.

there are people
all around you and they say things
that you shouldn't hear.

Somber music played by guys at the pool,
I'm listening from my sweltering room,
as the sun beats down, the water is cool,
I should join and alleviate my gloom.

I have this totally ridiculous 
thought that if I can't really sleep right now
then perhaps I should try to finish this
series of epic sonnets on the Dow

the Standard and Poor's, the Russell, and the 
Wilshire. Dumb old index crap, I'd like to
do something more sophisticated, a
person like me, though, consistently blue

in mood, testicles, temperament, and chips,
writing these sad songs with my hands and lips.

...

5

I was thinking about this poem I wrote a while back. Maybe a few years ago. I was going through my Spam folder and I came across some Spam messages that I thought were funny. I have to go through the hella-zillions of posts that I put on this god dammed blog. Figure out what poems I like, and then submit them.

I don't think that I'll keep any poems unpublished for the time being. I think that i'll just post them as soon as I write them. There is no incentive for me to keep them unpublished unless there is some kind of. I don't even know.

I was going to complete some unemployment paperwork to collect payment on the few weeks that I wasn't working. But I'm not sure I will. I archived the letter they sent, and I'm just going to forget about it. This is somewhat horseshit. I don't know. I really don't know what I'm going to do about that.

Just totally irritated about it.

Asian beauties, Russian Beauties, and pills
to enlarge your penis, a lottery
check is waiting for you, and unpaid bills,
and deals on ancient Chinese pottery.

A handful of rice and a slice of spam
and a sheet of nori: wrap it around
and you have spam musubi, then you cram
it into your throat and swallow it down.

Spam is something that en masse you delete
because everything caught by the filter
is useless. Spam is something that you eat
unless your stomach feels out of kilter.

Spam is a nuisance, and also a food
one is deleted, the other is stewed.

and here
you are again
with your best friends eating

all the best
bacon and all the best
meats.

I was thinking about this poem I wrote a while back. 
Maybe a few years ago. I was going through my Spam folder and 
I came across some Spam messages that I thought were funny. I have 
to go through the jillions of posts that I put on this god dammed 
blog. Figure out what poems I like, and then submit them.
I don't think that I'll keep any poems unpublished 
for the time being. I think that i'll just post them as soon as I write them. 

There is no incentive for me to keep them unpublished unless there is 
some kind of. I don't even know.

I was going to complete some unemployment paperwork 
to collect payment on the few weeks that I wasn't working. But I'm not 
sure I will. I archived the letter they sent, and I'm just going to forget 
about it. This is somewhat horseshit. I don't know. I really don't 
know what I'm going to do about that.

Just totally irritated about it.

Asian beauties, Russian Beauties, and pills
to enlarge your penis, a lottery

sometimes there are empty bottles cracked

and they eat for the 

turkeys of the

nest
check is waiting for you, 
and unpaid bills,
and deals on ancient Chinese pottery.

four of the greatest people on earth

are the best of the wisest people who are not here

A handful of rice and a slice of spam
and a sheet of nori: wrap it around
and you have spam musubi, then you cram
it into your throat and swallow it down.

then you see where the people are and how they
do what they want to do.

Spam is something that en masse you delete
because everything caught by the filter
is useless. Spam is something that you eat
unless your stomach feels out of kilter.

Spam is a nuisance, and also a food
one is deleted, the other is stewed.

but wait until your brain is 
larger than it was before and take care of how
things go for you.

...

6

I don't know if blogging and writing is a waste of time, or if it's just not very remunerative. Or if it's just that it hasn't been remunerative so far. In other words. I don't really get paid for this, and I really don't make any money doing it. Should I do it? Should anyone do anything that doesn't pay? I want to say that writing is a waste of time for me, but this is based on the premise that all time spent must be converted into money, and that the conversion of time into money is the be all and end all of how time is utilized.

...

7

I'm trying to get organized. I'm getting there. I am getting organized. It's a slow process, especially after the kind of mess that I've gotten myself into. Sticky fucking situations. How long will it take to clean things up and get things back in order? I don't know. It could take a whole fucking year. Who knows?

Ekphrastics: Paper Wings

A white bed sheet sprawled across a sofa,
the scent of body odor and sweat hangs
in the air, a person in a coma
once laid here, this is the place where he bangs

a multitude of women, the moist sheets
contain messages written in semen
he does it once, twice, three times, then repeats
the ritual again like a demon.

How on earth does he get loads of women
to go along banging with him, it's a
mystery, he smells just like a lemon
that's why women give him the time of day.

If I had mysterious skills like him
I'd bang a million women on a whim.

...

8

but it was inappropriate for the time,
and it was not to be changed for the time
that it was there and it was
not to be changed for the majority.

Ekphrastics: Vacation Apocalypse

A jet plane on its way to Australia
carries passengers of every color,
race, and creed. Along the plains Thalia
inspires the shepherds to write another

poem about goats and sheep, that they do.
Little do they know that the planes above
spew great clouds of carbon dioxide through
the atmosphere and a multitude of

other gasses that cause global warming.
One area suffers from massive floods,
another suffers a drought, bugs swarming
fields eating everything they can. Blue bloods

and titans of industry hardly care
about all the pollution in the air.

You will probably not believe this shit
but I'm totally feeding my flowers
vitamin and caffeine pills chopped to bits
mixed with liquids and raining like showers

from a two liter plastic bottle on
the chopped up pieces of twigs, leaves and buds
on the potted dirt, clippings from the lawn,
and the bathtub's water awash with suds.

This is strange stuff, and this is kind of fun,
this is an experience and maybe
an experiment too. The beating sun
feeding them from above, and then there's me,

placing nutrients at their feet. Buds brim
from behavior I copy from The Sims.

You will probably not believe this shit
but I'm totally feeding my flowers
vitamin and caffeine pills chopped to bits
mixed with liquids and raining like showers

from a two liter plastic bottle on
the chopped up pieces of twigs, leaves and buds
on the potted dirt, clippings from the lawn,
water from the bathtub awash with suds.

This is strange stuff, and this is kind of fun,
this is an experience and maybe
an experiment too. The beating sun
feeding them from above, and then there's me,

placing nutrients at their feet. Buds brim
from behavior I copy from The Sims.

...

9

The agony is real.
it's like a pain
somewhere in
the

it's like pain everywhere
and
well,
The agony is real.

I really have no idea what i was agonizing about in this post. it was September. it just seems so long ago, and i really don't know what was going on in my life at that time.

...

10

Well. This happened.
and you know
i didn't want it to happen

Well. This happened.
and i was hoping it
wouldn't happen again

Well. This happened.
and you would things I would have gotten
over it by now

I don't really remember what was going on in this posts. there are  a number of screen shots from my Robinhood portfolio. I don't think that i was doing anything interesting at this time, i don't think i was writing options. but I'm really not sure.

...

11

I don't know how to say this, but I am 
finding it so hard to know exactly
what is and is not off limits. Is Spam
okay to mix with orange juice? Lately,

those kinds of questions are the precise kinds
of questions I'm puzzling over. Lost
and confused, discombobulation finds
me drinking the bread and eating the frost

off a birthday cake, and it's not even 
my fucking birthday, or any other 
person's birthday either. I think heaven
is a place unlike this hell suffer

in, right now, at this moment drinking lime
flavored Kool-Aid and wasting all my time.

...

12


There is way too much stuff on my blog. I can't really find anything. Using the search tool doesn't do much, because I get millions of results. Well, maybe not millions, but I get more search results than I can really go through. There is a kind of continuing sadness. An ongoing unhappiness. It happens from time to time, usually later in the day, but now, it's happening during the morning. Sad thoughts and feelings swirl around in my head.

...

13

Today is just another day.
when things
take a turn
for the better

and later when things took
a turn for the more amazing
we saw that
five of the oranges that we tested
were actually west of the nile delta
then we tasted the vaginas that were
moist like the nile delta

 Today is just another day.
and the night
is just another night

I don't know what was going on during this day, and I don't know why i posted this particular post at this particular time. I think that i was working overnight at the time, and i would often post something during the day, and something at night. like one post before work, and one post after work. i was just checking in with myself i guess. to let myself know that i was still alive.

five of the oranges that we tested
were better
than all of the mandarins
we found on the diver
were actually west of the nile delta
then we tasted the vaginas that were
moist like the nile delta

...

14

Sometimes it feels like there are clues within
the numbers, and even though I know that 
this superstition with numbers isn't
the most intelligent behavior at

this time, for some reason they reappear
at regular intervals over and
over, and here and there and everywhere.
Even at the lake, my palms full of sand,

I count the grains and there are exactly
four-hundred and sixteen grains in my fist.
How can I not agonize overtly
with four-hundred songs, sixteen lines each, kissed

with teeth marks? Well. I don't even know, I'm
in enough trouble as it is this time.

...

15

way more amazing than
that and when you found
that you were hooked on
phonics and that it
actually worked for you

The ceiling fan in my bedroom rotates
non-stop, churning oxygen around my
apartment, and I watch as it abates
my rising internal temperature, high

from the hot air outside, high from distress,
emotional and psychological,
and to the ceiling itself I confess
all my absurd numerological

superstitions: "I know that this is more
than just coincidence, I know that this
is real, and I feel it in every pore 
and in every cell of my epidermis,

basically, my dear ceiling and dear wall,
the number two, is even, and that's all."

i still haven't gotten around to writing any of the sonnet or poem sets that i was thinking off, the bogus tour experiences or the prospectus based poems. but i have archived a number of prospectus documents that Robinhood sent me after several recent purchases. the bogus tour ideas, and i don't think i'll ever get around to this idea, were these: one was a treasure hunting experience, but rather than panning for gold or diving for Spanish doubloons, it was basically looking for aluminum cans. there was another idea for participating in an armed robbery, or heist, but a silly one, like robbing a lemonade stand or something, or ice cream truck. the most recent ideas were tagging along during a food courier trip, like for postmates or uber eats, and then the last one i thought of was like a stock picking experience, but a totally bogus one where we use results from a dart board competition, game of bingo, game of pool, lottery quick picks, or something, to generate a random string of numbers, and then use these random strings of numbers to pick stocks. i would have called it, how to buy stocks like you don't actually know anything. the prospectus stuff might be an easier thing to come around to.

the other issue is getting together a portfolio of poems to submit. i want to continue working on new poems, and then trying to comb through all my old ones and see which ones i can submit to a literary agent or book publisher. the whole magazines and journals thing never worked out, so i guess i'll try it this way.

...

16

This happens on and off with some regularity. There is something that's making me unhappy. Not deeply unhappy. Just somewhat unsatisfied. Or maybe. Just not all that happy. Not sad. Maybe sad. I don't know.

and maybe
you see where the wild things
post what they want
when they want
and what they want
and how they were when
they wanted to be seen

...

17

Consider your investment objectives and risks
before going on dates with
investors who should be aware that
response, price, speed and liquidity
depend upon whether you book a quick visit
or something of greater duration
while wearing a prophylactic may 
reduce risk, it does not assure a climax
or even an enjoyable experience during
a down market.

I know that this isn't a prospectus, but I figured
that I would start here. This is the fine print that 
comes at the end of the emails from Robinhood.

...

18

Grief. Improve your life in some way. and maybe
this will make you more dateable. i think so. i think
that might work. i want to buy a book, but something
unrelated to dating. i don't know what to get. garbage.

I want to buy more, but of course, I have to be careful. I'm using limit orders that would catch a dip, but I also want to round out most of these fractional holdings, and, the fucking thing is, you can't put in a limit order on a fractional share purchase. 

I would really just like to get a second job so I can slam this fucking thing. like hard.

So with limit orders, I'm putting in a limit price a few percentage points below the current market price. I may have mentioned this process in a previous post. It's actually a really simple idea.

The issue I had when buying the previous dip, the one in February, was I think, due to execution. I would slam my entire paycheck into my portfolio as soon as I got it, both fucking paychecks. I loved it.

I need to get a second job. Or at least. I really want to. I slept most of the day, and at work, I get tired from time to time, or fatigued maybe. It's hard to breathe wearing a mask, and I think that this effects my ability to stay energized.

...

19

I'm sleeping what would be considered a normal amount of hours per day, but it just seems like a lot. It doesn't give me much time to do anything. Or at least it doesn't feel like it. I should have 8 hours of free time per day, but it just never feels like I actually have that much time.

I have an idea. I should set my alarm for a few hours after I get back home from work.

...

20

here you are and
Man. There is. A lot on my mind. I have to work out my calendar. 1.
there we were
Before I make any efforts trying to get published. I want to see what the copyright process is actually like by actually filing a copyright.

There is an issue with rent. Its 20 bucks higher this month than last month. Its due to an increased assessment for water and sewage.

...

21

I don't have anything on my mind. I don't feel one way or the other. Getting through the week is one thing. And getting through the weekend is more or less the same ordeal. Well. I'm not dead yet.

...

22

What are some updates? well, a guy at work was telling me about some online classes and learning workshops that my employer offers, so I might pursue those, or look into them or whatever. There are other things on my mind as well.

Ekphrastics: Rough-legged Hawk

The rough-legged hawk soars in the summer sky,
the soft breeze, one hundred feet up, is cool,
and there, in the corner of the hawk's eye,
is a rabbit in the yard of a school.

The hawk swoops down into the green school yard,
its talons out reaching for the rabbit,
it catches the rabbit, breaks its neck, hard,
and drinks the rabbit's blood out of habit.

Poor rabbit, it will not be going back
to its house and its little kid bunnies,
the hawk broke his neck with a nasty clack,
now he'll never see his rabbit hunnies.

hawk eating rabbit is the way it goes,
it is simply the way that nature flows.

Ekphrastics: Sweet Water to Salt

Sweet water winds its way through a small brook
over a cliff, making a waterfall
in every crevice and in every nook
is life: algae, fish, ducks and birds and all

the rest. From the waterfall another
river forms which flows into the ocean,
a sea of salt water. This is Mother
Nature at work: everything in motion,

everything connected to everything
else, the sun over the sea creates clouds
which create rain which feeds river and spring
again. All through the system there are crowds

of mammals and insects and birds who live
in the ecosystem the waters give.

...

23

Ideas.
Sometimes.
I have ideas.
Not always.

...

24

I have to go to the post office this morning. I have a certified letter that I have to pick up.
something scary that turned out to be
worse than what you really thought it was
and scarier than
what you think it
will be.

...

25

I have stuff to do today. As in. Stuff other than work. Good lord.

What in God's name is wrong with me? Nothing. I'm just silly. Sometimes. And maybe I shouldn't worry about being silly too much.

four thousand
years ago there was
an empire known as the
Jorbilatoga
empire and
there was a character
named Kenneth the Frog
who was totally into

The Princess of Jorbilatoga.
Jor Bee La Toga

that is how the name
of the empire
is pronounced.

and this is what happened.
well it happened

Maybe one day. I won't be such an idiot. For some reason. I think that I have in my possession the majority of these purchases. I have 3 titanium rings, 2 silver rings, and the wood bracelet. I have a silver bracelet too, but that transaction isn't listed here.

...

26

I don't know what it is, but even my personal tasks take up too much of my time. I went to the post office on Ball Park, and it was basically just another copy of a letter that I received before. In a way I'm ticked off that I had to spend my morning just picking up a copy of a letter that I already picked up before. 

My passport arrived. I kind of want to go somewhere, but I don't know where.

...

27

Picked up an extra shift at work. I have my passport. I thought briefly about leaving the United States for Nepal after my lease is up. Silly thought though. It won't happen unless I'm feeling particularly capricious. Texas is alien enough for me.

...

28

Getting the voter registration process 
worked on. I'm really not sure how valuable voting is.
Scatter Brained 

I can't sit still, I can’t make up my mind
about what I need or feel like doing:
to release the doughnuts from my behind,
or stand up and get my urine flowing,
to guzzle down two liters of Pepsi,
or eat fourteen Jack in the Box tacos,
watch a schizer movie I can't unsee,
or smoke a blunt with some homeless pacos.
There is a pharmaceutical treatment
for this condition, but I haven’t sought
it out, possibly to my detriment
such that scattered up is my every thought.
I should mention these symptoms to my shrink
so he can diagnose the way I think. 

...

29

Some of the things that I put on my calendar to do, I don't even really want to do. A few of these things I really can't do for the time being because I don't want to shell out the money for it right now.

Shorlana Napkeeno
is the best woman in the
world and maybe even the
united states of the planetary
empire.

Shorlana Napkeeno is the founder of an ancient cult of 
goat worshippers.  Partaking in Western customs 
involving tarrifs and value added taxes.  When the time 
is right, he will sell all his gold and purchase a home in London.  
There he will settle down and establish himself as a vendor of 
goats and and horses.  

A million miles away, on the other side of Chownsville, 
there is a woman with multiple nose hairs sticking out of 
her moustache.  Shorlana would like to date her, but he does 
not know how he should approach her.  He has never seen 
such beautiful nose hairs.  He has stared for hours at her 
Plenty of Fish profile, admiring her nose hairs, wishing 
that he had nose hairs like her, so that he could feel adequate.

But he has no nose hairs.  He donated all of them to the 
Lukemia Foundation of Chownsville during a nose hair 
drive that lasted well into the early morning of September 11th.  
When the planes struck, his balls were severd from underneath 
his nose.  He tried to get himself together after the explosions 
reverberated throughout the city, but the reverberations cause 
him to have a massive orgasam that lasted all night, and resulted 
in multiple pant stains that he could never wash out.

...

30

Updating some stuff online. Regarding my Finances. One thing I had trouble with before was linking Interactive Brokers with Citi Financial Tools. I was able to fix that, actually.

...

31

Continuing updating stuff. Dropping photos onto my blog.
see where you are now?
and see where we both are now?

...

32

I was reviewing old posts. This was from last year during the spring. May 2019. Good god. It seems like so fucking long ago. I remember my idea was to get a graduate degree in business, partly because that was the only thing I qualified for. I couldn't get a second bachelor's degree in a different discipline because I wouldn't be able to arrange the financing for it.

I wouldn't be able to pursue a graduate degree in a different discipline because I didn't have the undergraduate coursework to qualify me for it.
Trying to retool for a different line of work isn't easy. It really isn't.

The most idiotic thing that I could do is not go to graduate school. Really. Most idiotic thing that I can do. I really do need the fucking money. Browsing the internet and getting distracted, basically, I just read that there is an Omega, and an Omicron. So there is a big O, an Omega, and a little O, which is an Omicron. I don't know, as far as this work stuff goes, I think that I should just go with it and figure it out as I go along. I should take the second job, if it is offered, then once graduate school starts, see about changing my schedule with both companies, the hotel and the warehouse.

...

33

see this here is this is where is this is 
how and this is here and now
and this is where and you cannot see
and the blind lead the blind and the
city burns to the ground the forest.

right 443 232 now 675 I 456 443 am 232 675
8 6 6 5 6 9 8 7 really 4 5 4 7 8 5 2 5 6 ticked
8 5 5 176 off about 523 10 3 10 how
1 6 6 6 1 7 6 32 58 12 7 8 808
835 16 3 13 0 -1 1 808 232 835 443

and where can you be if not here
and there is no where else for you to hide and
see

None of this really means anything to me. 
I'm not really seeing anything, although 
I was hoping to see something here, 
but of course, there is nothing here.

nothing.
One thing that I want to say though. is.
and i don't even want to fucking say this
because it kind of revels what kind of scumbag
i really am, and possibly, the kind of scumbag i
will always be.

i still don't even want to fucking say it.
but i guess here it goes.
sex is pointless unless you're really.
it's pointless unless you really like
the person you're having sex with.
i'm fucking serious. like. i don't even know.

or maybe it isn't pointless. maybe
i mean. maybe i mean that it's just
frustrating, or difficult.

maybe i won't always be a scumbag.
maybe, this is kind of. this is kind of
cathartic.

it kind of reveals something. but
i'm so sure that i've come to this 
conclusion before.

...

34

Strange day. 
some times i
do things that
are really boring.
and not really exciting.

...

35

I have to try not to think about all the things that irritate me. That make me angry. Try to be happy.

...

36

So on instagram twitter facebook and tumblr i basically friend or follow or subscribe to anyone who does the same to me. The result is often that my feeds are filled with photographs of tits and ass. That's cool. Better than all the divisive and incendiary and depressing memes that everyone posts. Tits ass are put me in a better mood than depressing memes.

This blog is becoming a testament to all the clutter that I collect. I doubt that I'll ever come around to looking at all this stuff again. Sometimes it does amuse me. Some of the stuff that I submitted to Literary Journals and magazines, the stuff that I haven't seen, and in many cases, that I don't even remember writing.

...

37

my mail hasn't arrived in a few days. i'm not really expecting anything, so, i don't know why i should care, really.

one thing on my list of things to do during my free time is to scrape my submittable submissions, and post the poems to my blog. I'm almost 100 percent sure that i've already done this.

i don't know why i feel the need to do it again.

the other few things are filing a copyright, just to see how the whole process works.

this is actually kind of cool, i'm getting used to typing using a laptop keyboard, and typing at the same speed i would with a regular keyboard.

i like it.

i really do.

there was a little bit of a feeling of sadness during my drive home this morning, and a feeling of anger when i was heading into work.

i don't think too much during work.

i still feel a kind of disappointment about. the. well. i don't even want to go there really. about me being the doofus of the rings. you know what i mean.

i didn't have much of an idea why i was doing. with the whole doofus of the rings antics, but i would have liked for things to have turned out differently.

...

39

This is what it feels like to be alone
in a strange city where the people are
busy all the time getting their tasks done
and are lifelong locals or from a far

away place, like Tibet, Nepal, or Greece,
Turkey, or Venezuela: I don't speak
the same language they do, my English reeks
of differences in the way that I think,

that I conceptualize and perceive 
the world differently from the way they do,
even if my ears and their ears receive 
the same words, spelled the same way, and in blue

ink with the same penmanship and typeface,
our different inferences would span space.

...

40

One of the tasks that I've put on my list of things to do is scrape my Submittable content and post it here. I mentioned doing this earlier, and I mentioned that I'm pretty sure that I performed this task before.

I wrote a poem, apparently, titled "Booty Privileges"
jesus. I do. have a problem.
Fucking dumb. 
Here it is.

Booty Privileges 

I demand access to that booty.  I have that right
according to the Constitution.  Congress shall 
make no establishment relating to the prohibition
of booty, nor shall there be any debate regarding
the prohibition of booty access.

It's the 921th amendment to the Constitution.  It was
tested in the court case Booty V. Kooter and it was
determined in a 5-4 swinger vote that booty prohibition
provisions shall be read to deliver maximum constitutional
protections, even where no protection is utilized.

Thirty-seven percent of people do not have adequate access
to the booty, and twenty-seven percent of those with sufficient
access do not have regular access to the booty, and even among
those that do have both adequate and regular access, only 
twenty-two percent actually enjoy the booty.

These are a series of photographs taken when I first arrived in Cameron, Missouri. I'm cleaning out my Google Drive and Google Photos account and posting the content to my blog.

...

41

I'm experiencing a little bit of sadness right now. I'm trying to tune out thoughts of disappointments. Things that don't turn out the way that I would like them to.

I wonder if there was text here that has
been removed?

What I think it may have been was an attempt to put
a photograph here or something
and I failed to do that because

photographs head to the bottom of a post almost
by default.

...

42

So. Not matter what. I'm pretty sure I'm always going to be doing the wrong thing. Or. How do I say this. There is always this. Well. Here is what I think. I always come across written articles that annoy the crap out of me.

...

43

this here is here and
now and will
never be the same
and pasta will be cooked
to the correct tenderness
booty
tender

...


44

Oh my god. Jesus. My lord.

I'm uploading all of these Submittable poems to my Blog. Many of them haven't been here before. Many of them I haven't already scraped and posted to my blog. The reason why is that. While a submission is under consideration by the magazine or journal, it's important that the work in the submission doesn't appear any where else, either online or in print, so I may have just left them in Submittable without posting them here, and later forgot to collect them when they were rejected.

I'm at the Copyright website, and checking it out.

...

45

One of the things that I wanted to get was the Heist issue from Bloomberg Magazine, when I went to the Bloomberg website, I didn't see an option for buying a back issue in paper, so I tried to get it on Amazon, but I just threw it on my wish list. I'll come back around to it later and see if I still want to get it.

Interactive Brokers is somewhat, actually, it's a hell of a lot more difficult to understand when compared to Robinhood. Way more difficult to understand. I don't want to close either account. What I want to do is grow both accounts. There are a few things that Robinhood does well, and it's the news letters and access to a news feed that helps the most. To keep tabs on things. 

I want to try getting a copyright on something, just to fill out the form, and pay the fee, and see how the whole process works. I don't think that I'll eventually make any money out of this. I don't think that I'm going to make any money from anything that I copyright. This is just an experiment.

...

46

dear and deer and adore
and see and you cannot 
feel what you cannot
see and when you go hunting
for the does in the forest. find them.

Ekphrastics: Gilt Frames

An ornate gilt frame crops a vast ocean
void of ice and polar bears and penguins.
the undulation of waves, the motion
back and forth. The melting of ice lengthens

the distance that polar bears need to go
in order to find its food and a place
to stay and hunt. There are no packs of snow
free from the effects of warming. This race

of bears will soon go extinct for a lack
intervention on the part of people
and industry. Regulations too slack
to be effective and a medieval

attitude toward animals and earth: 
how much industry are living things worth?

look you bitch ass. take a 
hard look in the 
fucking mirror.

a full body mirror.

and see why your
sweet ass kills me.

your ass is murderous. 
your ass is killer.

woe is me.
to see what I've seen.
to see what i see.

you really are
whatever the fuck a moon has
always meant.

and i mean booty shaped 
moons especially.

ass moons.

ass moons that can be measured 
in international astronomical units

your ass is totally regular.
but only in the sense that it's not
irregular.

maybe your ass knows 
how to regulate mother fuckers.

i wouldn't know because i've never had
a conversation with your ass.

you never told me to
talk to the ass.

look you bitch ass. take a 
hard look in the 
fucking mirror.

a full body mirror.

and see why your
sweet ass kills me.

your ass is murderous. 
your ass is killer.

woe is me.
to see what I've seen.
to see what i see.

you really are
whatever the fuck a moon has
always meant.

and i mean booty shaped 
moons especially.

ass moons.

your ass is totally regular.
In the sense that it's not
irregular.

maybe your ass knows 
how to regulate mother fuckers.

i wouldn't know. I've never had
a conversation with your ass.

you never told me to
talk to the ass.

Why don't you take a 
long hard look in the 
fucking mirror.

a full body mirror.

and try to see just why your
sweet ass kills me.

your ass is murderous. 
your ass is killer.

woe is me.
to see what I've seen.
to see what i see.

you really are
whatever the fuck a moon has
always meant.

and i mean booty shaped 
moons especially.

Why don't you take a 
long hard look in the 
fucking mirror.

a full body mirror.

and see just why your
sweet ass kills me.

your ass is murderous. 
your ass is killer.

you really are
whatever the fuck a moon has
always meant.

and i mean booty shaped 
moons especially.

Why don't you take a 
long hard look in the 
fucking mirror.

a full body mirror.

and see just why your
sweet ass kills me.

your ass is murderous. 
your ass is killer.

Why don't you take a 
long hard look in the 
fucking mirror.

a full body mirror.

and see just what it is about that
sweet ass that kills me.

...

47

Is there anything that I need to work on right now?
well
I really don't think so.
i don't know if that's ture
I don't.
anymore and you see
There are a few things that I could work on.
there are people
Well.
in the backroom
Actually. I could probably get finished uploading all my old Submittable
content to my blog.

but I might do that later.
kissing
It isn't super important, and it isn't a huge priority.
when they should be
It's not really important, so I'm not really going to focus on it right now.
making love with one another
Mail. I haven't gotten too much mail recently.
telling each other sweet things.
Not that I expect much mail or anything.

...

48

It may have been totally wrong to leave Missouri. Wrong in the sense that leaving Missouri was a sub-optimal decision. Not that it was morally wrong to leave. and it's not that I don't think in moral terms. it's not that I don't think in terms of wrong and right in a moral sense. it's more that I don't think that relocation is a moral decision. I don't think that relocation has a moral calculus. I don't think that morality plays a part in a decision to relocate.

I'm continuing to clean out my files on Google Photos. There are still quite a few really old photographs there. I don't know why I have so many photographs uploaded there.

There is something cool. I'm not as broke as I thought I was. How this happened is something that I would find difficult to explain. It really would be difficult to explain. It really would be.

i really thought that she was a goddess. or some kind of divine creature. and. maybe not in the sense that she was beautiful in the superficial sense, or attractive in the superficial sense. even though she definitely is beautiful in the superficial sense. and attractive in the superficial sense. but I really thought that she. protected me. or watched over me. or sent good luck and good fortune my way. or something. i really thought that she communicated with me telepathically. or sent me subtle signs or hints. directing me in this quest. or something. or adventure. or whatever this is that i'm doing.

...

49

I barfed. I went to the buffet. There was nothing wrong with the food. I just ate too much.

Your Home Country

I wrote a poem here on 09 25 2020. The poem has been removed and saved to my hard drive. This will be part of the unpublished set that I submit for copyright protection later.

...

50

Reading my spam messages. as in. actually reading them. is somewhat of a guilty pleasure of mine. for the first time ever. i've come across and advertisement about rock hard cocks that utilize an ancient method of hard-on achievement. boner-fi-cation. use a pump to get a boner. 

if you buy this pump.
she will come.

...

51

I'm tired. Maybe I over slept. I only slept 8 hours. I don't recall takinh my daily multi-vitamin. I remember. In Missouri I would sleep maybe 4 hours. Or 5. And not all in one block. They were split. But I would take a caffeine pill with my vitamin. Maybe that wad unhealthy.

...

52

There area few things on my mind. I kind of want to write another poem about spam emails. Some of the spam messages that I get in my inbox are hilarious. 

There was an incident where a kind of attractive woman suggested that I add her on Snapchat. What happened was I suggested that she add me online. I didn't specify what platform or whatever, and then she said Snapchat. I hesitated because I associate Snapchat with amateur porn. So we added each other on Facebook instead, and I wonder if maybe she was suggesting I take a look at her nude photographs. I should have done it.

...

53

Sometimes when I'm out on my balcony, and I lean up against the glass of my sliding door, I sometimes wonder if I lean too hard the glass will shatter, and I'll be impaled by by the shards of the shattered glass. Would I die? Would I really care? No, but it would hurt, and I try to avoid pain, and avoiding pain is something I do actually care about, so I refrain from shattering the glass of my sliding door. This is not a note or anything. It's just a thought about the consequences of pressing too hard on the glass of my sliding door, and that's it.

I set up email aliases for my Gmail account. I can receive emails from my domain chestnutandhazel.com, but I haven't been sending emails with that domain name. I should be able to set outgoing emails using my domain name now.

Fucking. Bored. Talking to myself. Typing. This is the boring life I lead. So boring. Sometime I want something better. But who cares. Life sucks. It really does.

I finally set up Google Analytics for my blog. I don't know why I didn't do this before. I guess. I didn't really think to do it. Or something. I guess I really just didn't bother. But I did do it just now. I saw that I had it set up for my old blogs, but I guess since I deleted those blogs they didn't have any information or whatever.

...

54

Damn. My head is swirling around. As though my mind is being flushed down the toilet.

Damn. I'm bored, and I have nothing to do. 	
well you know, truth is
i had no idea
i thought that 
my favorite things were the best.

...

55

Trying to make the best of everything that I have going on right now. and trying to make the best of everything that I don't have going on right now. Life won't always be boring. Life won't always be day after day of nothing exciting happening. Something fun should happen. Something good should happen. Think good things, and think happy thoughts. Do it!

Stupid. I don't like when the stock market drops, but I don't like having unfulfilled limit orders either. Well. I guess. I guess everything is a trade off or something. Well. Oh well.

...

56

Curiosity. I kind of just want to know what happened. So fucking stupid, but you have know idea how much I would really like to see what's up. Well. I guess I'll never know. That's how it goes I guess.

...

57

I want to read some of my spam messages just for amusement, but it is getting really cluttered. Most of them are the same spam message, which is basically a note that I haven't been visiting their porn website in several weeks. I only visit one porn website, and it isn't the porn website noted in the porn site spam email. So I know that this porn spam is not a legitimate porn related email. It has to be a porn spam email, and not a regular porn email.

...

58

This is just a test post. I am having issues with this blog that need to be resolved. These are technical issues, not other kinds of issues.

...

59

I feel somewhat lost and. I feel sort of without purpose. I want to try a few things. Lost. Really lost and I don't know what to do.
Jesus.

...

60

I went to the buffet again today. and this time. I didn't barf after eating. I didn't eat much. or I didn't eat as much as I would usually eat. The waiters served the food from the serving trays.

...

61

How much real progress have I made toward these. You know. Things that I've been wanting to do? None, really. I'll do it this weekend. Get a lot of it done. Tons of it. I file one copyright. I don't know what it will be, but I will get it done. I'll put something together and fill out the paperwork.

At the buffet I. There were a few things about the fortune cookies that. Sort of lead me to my most recent act of delusional behavior. But honestly. I did actually. Think. That telepathy was real. And sometimes. I still think that telepathy is real. And I still don't really pay attention to it.

Bacardi

I purchased a bottle of Bacardi
today and  drank it down with Coke Zero.
I had, with myself, a little party,
a party of one where I'm the hero

who loves the flavor of Coke Zero and
Bacardi and kills the bottle one shot
at a time. I'm the hero who can stand
the turpentine flavor of what I bought,

and I let the taste swish around my tongue
making mixed drinks with soda pop and rum
aged until it's brown and flows out the bung
of an ancient cask or hickory drum

I drink alone so I don't have to share,
I down the whole bottle until it's air.

It's happening again. I can
barely think about anything
else. I don't know why this
is happening again.

...

62

A Series of 24 Logos for Chestnut + Hazel

...

A Series of 24 Logos for Chestnut + Hazel

These are a few of the logos I've come up with.

...


...

i'm in class right now, and all this new material is going way over my head. I'm tired, and I haven't paid attention in class in weeks. most of the time I'm in class trying to figure out past assignments.

...

my nails are. and I swore I just cut them, but they are long enough to be interfering with my ability to type.

...

do I have any money?

...

I'm a little bit lost right now.

...



...

"Everything I had done has to be done over; I was on the wrong track entirely, and after working hard most of that time: I'm still only at the beginning." - Gustave Flaubert

...

I don't know what to do right now.

...

[Development Notes]

<!-- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40211944/stop-playing-video-in-iframe-when-modal-is-closed -->
<!-- check for deployment after a while. this was moved from codepen into vscode and uploaded to GitHub to make this function better.
I really want to update this, maybe even change the look of it. -->

...

I think this was about my chestnut + hazel connections page for project 14.

...

I'm uploading content to my YouTube channel, I'm not sure how exciting these videos are. 
some of these videos are very long, and take a long time to upload as well, and I can't really upload all of them at once because my account doesn't have those permissions just yet.

...

my nails aren't that long, but I had to cut them because they are messing with my ability to type again. 

...

I really don't know what to do about money.

...

[Development Commentary]

<!-- [11/05/2023 06:00 AM] [11/04/2023 23:10] -->
<!-- [11/05/2023 06:00 AM]
[11/05/2023 06:00 AM] [Development Commentary] [11/05/2023 03:35] [11/05/2023 03:40]
[11/05/2023 06:00 AM]

Even with as much time as I've spent on this, and seemingly no closer to getting a JSON file working, I seem to have
made a breakthrough with this carousel. The iframes look like they are interactive in a way that they were not interactive
in the original Project 10 version of the carousel.

I'm setting up links to see if the iframes in the carousel work, and if they do, then that means this should work. and I can
get project 14 completed, even though this seems like it was kind of a long digression from the requirements of project 14.

-->

...





















...

I spent a lot of time on that project, I really enjoy the end result. I still want to make the contact modal work. These are comments removed from my GitHub files.

...




  


I'm spending some time today to work on my blog, as well as my YouTube channel. I don't know. I need to do something with these gaming videos, like add narration, or, say something, about what I'm thinking, about what some of my decisions are when I'm playing. I'm kind of thinking of going with the Vanilla version, rather than playing with so many mods, but, if there isn't one annoying issue with the game, there is usually some other annoying issue. One thing that takes up a lot more time than I would like it to, is the whole business of managing the faction and ruling dynasty.

...

This is one of my earlier videos from the channel, when I spent time reading poetry and all of that. It's interesting to see all of the voice over stuff that can be done with text to speech programs. I actually saw an advertisement for one that I was really impressed with.

...


...

"Here's to momma dollar, and poppa dollar!"

...

I don't know what to do about money.

...

This is such a nightmare. Everything.

...



















...




Walking Through The Grass (2019)

I remember walking 
to work, about a mile or so 
to a hotel where I worked, and
I had to walk through the grass
and the grass
was always wet, really wet, and 
my pants would get wet too 
and my boots would get wet 
and my socks would get wet.

...



There is an issue with posting youtube videos in iframes, they have to have /embed/ in the source path. headache. I thought that the video just wasn't totally live or deployed on YouTube, but it might be totally not going to work.

...

 It seems like my upload limit for my YouTube channel is 8 videos for any 24 hour period. Nothing I've produced is particularly interesting, but, I'll come up with something.

...

Total War  ROME 2 Battle of Ephesus

The Spartans are on the warpath throughout Asia Minor, no one can stop them, except for the even more amazing Roman Military! They will be stopped! Even if they! are! Sparta!

...

I'm spending way too much time playing computer games. I'm trying to make something out of it by recording videos while I play, but the videos I make aren't all that amazing.

...
 

 

Good Lord! I spent the entire day gaming, the entire past few days actually, and I've not gotten any real work done, or, well, I don't really feel like I've gotten any work done.

...

I worked on my blog a little bit, made a few videos of me fixing broken links on my blog. I have to work on Project 15, and I really haven't even looked at what's required. There's an issue with creating an embedded iframe, it's not really possible to link just the YouTube page into an iframe as a regular source, and suddenly I realize why, you only want the video, and not the whole page that's on YouTube. 

...


   


All the videos are now uploaded to YouTube. It took so long. i deleted my miscellaneous repository, but then, i created a new miscellaneous repository because I have the index to that repository linked elsewhere, so, I didn't want them to break, so I fixed it before it became a problem.

...

These videos that I've uploaded to YouTube today are taking forever to load. This time, I made the decision to upload the largest files, rather than whatever random videos occurred to me to upload. I figured that I could get these large files out of my storage space. but, yeah, they are taking forever to upload.

...

My software development course will be over next week. This comes as kind of a relief, but I'm also kind of sad about it, I really enjoyed this class. I don't know how I'm going to continue to stay motivated to work on web and software development projects without project being due, everything I work on after class will be a self directed project. Yeah, I've been spending way too much, mountains of time playing computer games.

 ...

  

There is kind of a chicken and egg problem going on here. I need to get an MMR vaccine to attend UNLV, I got my first dose something like 5 years ago when I applied to the MBA program at UNLV, I need to get a second dose. I must have left Las Vegas before getting my second dose of the MMR vaccine. I thought I took it already when I applied at UTA, but the vaccine that UTA required was a meningitis vaccine. The funny thing about the UTA thing, the meningitis vaccine, was that they kept sending me notices to submit proof of vaccination for meningitis, but when I got around to getting the vaccine and uploading proof, it turns out I didn't really need to get it, it was for undergrads only. Waste of money.

So now I have to figure out how to get the MMR vaccine, the second dose. The chicken and egg problem that I'm facing is that I need my MMR vaccine to enroll in classes at UNLV, but I have to be enrolled in classes at UNLV to get a Student ID card, and use the Student Health Services and get vaccinated. This isn't a huge problem, it just means that I have to get vaccinated somewhere else.
   



I was experimenting with layouts for katastrophiena.com, and I really liked the layout that I selected, and I actually decided to apply it to chestnutandhazel.com. I think that it's really nice, and nothing really broke. I recently. I've been making all the measurements for the iframes percentage based, all the dimensions percentage based, because I figured that I might change layouts from time to time, and it seems to have kept things from getting messed up with the new layout, or, style.
...
    
 ...

 
I don't know what to do right now. I should be working on Project 16 right now. It's actually. I don't actually have to turn it in, but I should do it because I need the experience of doing it, and, well, I've just felt a whole lot less motivated lately.

...
  

...

My mind is kind of all over the place right now. I have a lot of things to worry about right now. I'm watching The Untouchables, Brian de Palma (1987), and this really is a good movie. Class starts in a few minutes. There is only one more day of class left, Saturday the 18th, but it's just a get-together kind of for the final day of class.

I have this other laptop, a second one, and it's extremely slow, and I use it for watching the live course via zoom, and I use my main laptop to do the work, but this thing, my other laptop, is taking forever to load, it's always slow, it's been slow since I bought it, and I'm really surprised with how slow it is. I bought it during one of the road trips, but, it's really super slow. so slow that it hardly functions.

...







...

I remember these poems from when I moved to Missouri from Las Vegas. I remember I didn't find work there for a while. In Missouri. I did get a job at the prison in town, but then, it wasn't really a job that was suitable for me, and, it wasn't a good environment for me either. I don't know what to do right now.

...
   
 ... 

Reflection # 850 by Chestnut and Hazel

I'm going to post some old poems I wrote, probably while I was at Mosaic, or during the first few months when I first came to Missouri.

Etude # 48

I guess you could call it
something of a wooded area.

There are trees and stuff and
A little bit of other flora.

I really like it.

I want to put all the ashes there
and let the trees absorb the nutrients of
the ashes. Maybe someday there will be
a cure for whatever illness needs curing
in that tree.

Etude # 47

After we burn the trash, we look for any metal
that we can sell to the scrap yard. Burnt Tires
leave wires of metal that can be sold to the
scarp yard. What metal is it. I don't know.

...


All the gaming videos that I've captured are either being uploaded to my Chestnut + Hazel channel, or my personal channel, so that's out of the way, but many of the files are very large, and they are taking a long time to upload, so I have to find something else to do in the meantime, I was supposed to update my browser either today or yesterday, but I forgot to do it, with all of this uploading I have to do, I have to keep my browser open. So I basically haven't closed it and re-opened it to update my browser.

...

My plans for the next few days are to finish uploading all of my gaming videos to my Chestnut + Hazel YouTube channel, and then hold off on gaming for a while. I could probably get all of that done today. I have so many videos uploaded already, and I think that I have about 20 more that I'm in the process of uploading. I scheduled them way out into the future, all the way until the end of 2024 because I didn't want them all dropping at once. Once that's done I'm going to focus on putting together my UNLV applications. I just noticed something funny, I noticed that when Slack loads, the screen says: Reticulating Splines, which is from SimCity.

I have 7 videos left to upload. A lot of these videos have just been sped up with 4x or 16x to reduce the file size, and make the action happen more quickly.

...

I'm really happy about completing the Software Development course, and I'm really proud of this. Tomorrow is the last day of class, but it's not really a full class. I'm not sure what to do next.

...







...

Below I've posted an old video of a poetry reading video that I made years ago.

...

All the gaming videos that I've captured are either being uploaded to my Chestnut + Hazel channel, or my personal channel, so that's out of the way, but many of the files are very large, and they are taking a long time to upload, so I have to find something else to do in the meantime, I was supposed to update my browser either today or yesterday, but I forgot to do it, with all of this uploading I have to do, I have to keep my browser open. So I basically haven't closed it and re-opened it to update my browser.

...

My plans for the next few days are to finish uploading all of my gaming videos to my Chestnut + Hazel YouTube channel, and then hold off on gaming for a while. I could probably get all of that done today. I have so many videos uploaded already, and I think that I have about 20 more that I'm in the process of uploading. I scheduled them way out into the future, all the way until the end of 2024 because I didn't want them all dropping at once. Once that's done I'm going to focus on putting together my UNLV applications. I just noticed something funny, I noticed that when Slack loads, the screen says: Reticulating Splines, which is from SimCity.

I have 7 videos left to upload. A lot of these videos have just been sped up with 4x or 16x to reduce the file size, and make the action happen more quickly.

...

I'm really happy about completing the Software Development course, and I'm really proud of this. Tomorrow is the last day of class, but it's not really a full class. I'm not sure what to do next.

...







...

Below I've posted an old video of a poetry reading video that I made years ago.

...

I'm not sure what to work on right now. Today is Sunday, and everything is kind of a free day for a while. I should look for work. Apply for a few positions. I made a few game playing videos where I have voice overs or narrations what what's going on, and what decisions I'm making. Even with the videos sped up to 10x to 16x, there still seems to be a lack of things to say.


...

The thing that I'm worried about for the future is money. I've been out of work for 4 months, and I also haven't had any income, money coming in during that time. I tried to sign up for food delivery stuff, but that didn't really work. I don't really know what to do. I don't know what to do. I really don't know what to do. I would like to be working, but I really need to find the right role. I need to land the right role, the right position.

...

Letters to Katastrophiena # 49 

I have an exam tomorrow, and I'm not even really prepared. In fact I'm not even really prepared at all. I was working on this Spanish Translations project, but it really hasn't gone anywhere, and it's not even close to being done. I also have to find work; I thought about doing the food delivery and rideshare stuff, but, I had an incident today where I concluded that it might not really be something that is workable. There are major traffic issues in Las Vegas that make driving really frustrating, and I'm not really sure I would be able to do it. I still need to find work, though. Or some source of income.

...

Letters to Katastrophiena # 48

I shaved, and I think that my face looks a lot nicer than it does when I have facial hair, but I didn't shave my head, but I still think that I look a lot nicer when I have my face shaved. I exfoliated, and I had a lot of dead skin and all that. It was really kind of gross, but I was really happy to get my face clean. I worked on my translations project. 

The favicon stuff is annoying. sizing and stretching things. making it look right it the browser tab. important. but annoying.

...

Letters to Katastrophiena # 47

I've been kind of not really doing anything lately. Nothing, other than playing on the computer, and really just playing from the start over and over, again and again. I bought a phone mount, like the kind for my car, but I mounted it on my wall next to my desk. This is kind of cool, and I've been thinking about doing this for a while, but didn't do it, because I didn't really want to spend the money on something like this, but it really helps because I usually watch movies on my phone, rather than my computer, and when my phone is just sitting on my desk I can't really see what's going on on-screen.

I have 1 more class I need to enroll in at UNLV. Just like at UTA, I have to request permission for pretty much every class I try to enroll in. I'm not sure how long I should wait before reaching out a second time. The annoying thing is, is that I didn't realize before hand that I needed to request permission for every class I need to take, so I didn't ask permission for both classes the first time, I only requested permission for the one class I thought that I needed to request permission for. I thought the other class didn't require it, so I'm waiting for the other class to be unlocked.

...

Spring (2023)

Translated from Primaveral (1888) by Rubén Darío

1

During the blossoming months, my
rhymes run in circles through a vast
forest to collect nectar and
aromatics from blooming flowers.

Come, my love! to our place: the hallowed
grove where an ambience of love floats
above the aromas of the foliage of Spring.

A bird flies from tree to tree and
greets you, and your face, blushing
and as beautiful as the dawn and the
superb oaks, tall and robust,

tremble as you walk by, its leaves
shake and its branches rise to give
way to the queen. My Love! It's the
sweet spring season.

...

Letters to Katastrophiena # 46

There are a number of challenges I'm facing when it comes to monetizing my blogs or my other content. There are a whole bunch of Search Console issues that I'm not clear about how to fix, and then there are minimum viewer requirements on YouTube that will take a while to complete, and then there are content issues with Blogger that aren't really clear to me how to resolve.
...

Letters to Katastrophiena # 45

I want to get a new gaming laptop, but I have to wait until next year. One that meets the minimum requirements for the games I'm looking to play, even the new ones, doesn't look too expensive, it's more than I would normally spend on a laptop for general use, but it seems less than what gaming laptops costs, or, what I'm used to seeing gaming laptops cost. One of the things I'm not too sure about is how long the deal will last, or if gaming laptops should drop in general later on.

I'm trying to turn my gaming into something like a business, but, yeah, I don't fully know how to do that. I seem to be getting more attention my my regular YouTube channel when compared to my Chestnut + Hazel YouTube channel.

...


Letters to Katastrophiena # 50 

I'm feeling worried about the future. I went in for my entrance exam for the Spanish Translation program, and I don't really think that it went well: I didn't really study because I spent these last few days immersed in my gaming, and didn't do anything else really, and now, I'm sick of the game, and now I probably have time to do productive stuff. Part of the reason I wasn't really motivated to study was because I did manage to get accepted into the Entrepreneurship and Innovation program, and I already enrolled in as many classes as I plan to take, and my original goal was to get into one program or the other.

The thing that I'm worried about for the future is money. I've been out of work for 4 months, and I also haven't had any income, money coming in during that time. I tried to sign up for food delivery stuff, but that didn't really work. I don't really know what to do. I don't know what to do. I really don't know what to do. I would like to be working, but I really need to find the right role. I need to land the right role, the right position.

...

Letters to Katastrophiena # 49 

I have an exam tomorrow, and I'm not even really prepared. In fact I'm not even really prepared at all. I was working on this Spanish Translations project, but it really hasn't gone anywhere, and it's not even close to being done. I also have to find work; I thought about doing the food delivery and rideshare stuff, but, I had an incident today where I concluded that it might not really be something that is workable. There are major traffic issues in Las Vegas that make driving really frustrating, and I'm not really sure I would be able to do it. I still need to find work, though. Or some source of income.

...

Letters to Katastrophiena # 48

I shaved, and I think that my face looks a lot nicer than it does when I have facial hair, but I didn't shave my head, but I still think that I look a lot nicer when I have my face shaved. I exfoliated, and I had a lot of dead skin and all that. It was really kind of gross, but I was really happy to get my face clean. I worked on my translations project. 

The favicon stuff is annoying. sizing and stretching things. making it look right it the browser tab. important. but annoying.

...

Letters to Katastrophiena # 47

I've been kind of not really doing anything lately. Nothing, other than playing on the computer, and really just playing from the start over and over, again and again. I bought a phone mount, like the kind for my car, but I mounted it on my wall next to my desk. This is kind of cool, and I've been thinking about doing this for a while, but didn't do it, because I didn't really want to spend the money on something like this, but it really helps because I usually watch movies on my phone, rather than my computer, and when my phone is just sitting on my desk I can't really see what's going on on-screen.

I have 1 more class I need to enroll in at UNLV. Just like at UTA, I have to request permission for pretty much every class I try to enroll in. I'm not sure how long I should wait before reaching out a second time. The annoying thing is, is that I didn't realize before hand that I needed to request permission for every class I need to take, so I didn't ask permission for both classes the first time, I only requested permission for the one class I thought that I needed to request permission for. I thought the other class didn't require it, so I'm waiting for the other class to be unlocked.

...

Spring (2023)

Translated from Primaveral (1888) by Rubén Darío

1

During the blossoming months, my
rhymes run in circles through a vast
forest to collect nectar and
aromatics from blooming flowers.

Come, my love! to our place: the hallowed
grove where an ambience of love floats
above the aromas of the foliage of Spring.

A bird flies from tree to tree and
greets you, and your face, blushing
and as beautiful as the dawn and the
superb oaks, tall and robust,

tremble as you walk by, its leaves
shake and its branches rise to give
way to the queen. My Love! It's the
sweet spring season.

...

Letters to Katastrophiena # 46

There are a number of challenges I'm facing when it comes to monetizing my blogs or my other content. There are a whole bunch of Search Console issues that I'm not clear about how to fix, and then there are minimum viewer requirements on YouTube that will take a while to complete, and then there are content issues with Blogger that aren't really clear to me how to resolve.
...

Letters to Katastrophiena # 45

I want to get a new gaming laptop, but I have to wait until next year. One that meets the minimum requirements for the games I'm looking to play, even the new ones, doesn't look too expensive, it's more than I would normally spend on a laptop for general use, but it seems less than what gaming laptops costs, or, what I'm used to seeing gaming laptops cost. One of the things I'm not too sure about is how long the deal will last, or if gaming laptops should drop in general later on.

I'm trying to turn my gaming into something like a business, but, yeah, I don't fully know how to do that. I seem to be getting more attention my my regular YouTube channel when compared to my Chestnut + Hazel YouTube channel.

...



There was a place that i came across today while I was out DoorDashing, and it was a place called ONO or something. Ono Sushi. I just looked it up. I think that I might want to eat there.

...

Letters to Katastrophiena # 51 

I did food delivery work today. I delivered 1 meal. It didn't take long to get the first order, but after that order, the zone I was working in dried up, so I switched zones, once I got there, there weren't really any orders to pick up, so I figured there wasn't really much work that day, so I went home. I've very rarely been able to make delivering food profitable.

...

Today. and I'm referring to the 18th, I often stay up overnight. Today wasn't a very fruitful day in terms of Door Dashing. The weekend wasn't as much of a money maker as I thought it would have been.

My conclusion is that it might be better to start later on in the day. Maybe around 8:00 PM or something. I've been pushing my start times back further and further. I thought 4:00 PM was already somewhat late.

If I'm going to work nights, then I need to buy a jacket.

A while ago I think I wrote about how I wanted to buy a jacket and what ended up happening is that I ended up buying two sweaters two jackets and four pairs of pants after buying the sweaters I realized that I don't really like sweaters and part of the reason for that is that with jackets I have a jacket pocket and I don't really like having so many things in my pants pockets so I bought these sweaters and I'm not really planning on using them

I really like the sweaters but from a usefulness standpoint I just don't anticipate ever really wearing them

...

I'm trying to think.
maybe i could go out and

eat something ridiculous, but
i don't know of anything ridiculous
that's open at 3 AM.

the only kind of food that's available
at 3 AM is basically totally normal
kinds of food.

Let's see:

Hitchin' Post Saloon

I've actually been wanting to eat here for a while, but, I think this is some kind of steakhouse or something, and that's pretty much normal food.

Bourbon Street Sports Bar

I've eaten here before, and I think I spent like 30 bucks. I don't mind spending 30 bucks on a meal, but the meal has to be worth 30 bucks, and whatever I ate here really wasn't worth 30 bucks.

Northstar Bar and Grill

this place is close, but I think it's just normal food.

there are a number of taco stands and taco trucks, the last time I went to a taco stand I spent 47 dollars. i think I ate 18 tacos, it was some multiple of 6. I think it was 14 tacos actually.

I want to eat some kind of
fish.

I'm still in a really lousy mood right now.

i'm trying to think.

I want to eat indian food.

Delhi Indian & Nepali Cuisine Express

the building that's on google maps isn't really all that sexy.
but the address

333 W St Louis Ave, Las Vegas, NV 89102

I basically have to eat there now.
and here's why

333 is simply one of my favorite numbers.

and west saint louis just kills me because

kansas city is in the west and saint louis is on the eastern part of missouri. kansas city is part kansas and part missouri, and saint louis is part missouri and part illinois.

place isn't open right now though.

oh. I realize what this is.

it's a
Virtual restaurant

it's basically doordash only kind of orders. like it basically only exists to fulfill doordash orders.

I'm still trying to think.

at this point i'm not even hungry anymore.

i'm in slightly less of a bad mood.




i need to get something to eat

i'm not hungry really

i'm just not really in much of a good mood.

i'm in a really garbage kind of mood.

i'm not even hungry.
and
eating something is not really
a solution

but i can't really think of anything else 
i enjoy doing

i don't feel hungry

...

so i ended up at saffron flavors of india

...


















...

this is one of the few times i've ever successfully fixed a Google Search Console issue. but this also comes with . this also came with a seperate email stating that i had not resolved some other - seperate google search console issue.

...









 have to watch what i eat when i go out. i really
feel like i ate too much.


i have to get these small assignments done.




...


I don't know what to do for money. I haven't interviewed for anything in a while.


...

[Development Commentary]

<!-- [11/04/2023 23:10] Create a link for Chestnut and Hazel Connection, Mobile Version -->

...

Sometimes when I go into interviews it's not clear to me if the interviewer is just looking to kill time, or if they are actually looking to fill the role. When I went into this interview with Copart, it felt like the interviewer only had the intention of mocking my work history, and like, she didn't start the interview until an hour or so after the scheduled time.


I'm still really angry that my unemployment claim was denied, and that I'm not getting paid out on it.


but.


if they aren't going to pay me, then I almost see no reason to look for work.
I'll keep looking as long as I have an appeal outstanding, but, in many ways it
feels like looking for work is a total waste of my time.


I'm worried about running out of money before I get into college. I can't seem to put together
enough letters of recommendation, and, this is a real nightmare. A real nightmare.


I can't really leave Las Vegas, and UNLV is the only college in Las Vegas that has a graduate school.
All the programs at UNLV require more letters of recommendation that I can reasonably put together,
and. I don't know.


...


Total War ROME 2: Battle of Pella (2023) During the Macedonian wars of 209 BC The Julian Dynasty takes the bold move to attack the Macedonians at the very heart of their empire: The Capital of Pella. Defended by their own world renowned Macedonian warriors, and reinforced by their Epirot and Spartan allies, the Capital of Pella makes for a difficult battle, over the course of three separate major assaults on the city, Pella is finally captured by none other than Sextus Nerva himself.


...


I had to get rid of a bunch of this stuff for some reason.


* * *

notes and reflections

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that these seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the dark web / illicit internet posted by Vladimir Nikita Stalin:

evil666doers666unite666. onion / ru / lat666lon666bounty /666coins / luv666vladimir666putin666
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that these seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the dark web / illicit internet posted by Vladimir Nikita Stalin:

evil666doers666unite!666. onion / lat122lon666bounty .666coins / luv666vladimir666putin666
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h

* * *

🤖What powerful but 
unrecorded race👽
🐨Once dwelt in that 
annihilated place🗿

* * *

#variationonathemebyhoracesmith
#bykennethlarotyamatfor
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
🤖🙂👽🐵🐼🐸🐨
🐉🐢🐒🦞🦀🦑🐙
🦂🦗🐜🐞🦋🗿👻

🏚️🎱♟️👾🔫

🥇🚿🏅🚿🍋🚿
🌕🚿✉️🚿📀🚿

🤏🥖🧮🐛🗜️🍌🔩
🌽📏🥒📐🥕📷🌶️

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
🤖👽🐨🗿
📓👻⚙️💀

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
4h
🤖👽🐨🗿📓👻⚙️

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
4h
🤖What powerful but 
unrecorded race👽
🐨Once dwelt in that 
annihilated place🗿

#DanishCookieUXorious

* * *

How is computer science
different from software

notes
programming language
software and electrical 
computer stuff
design

* * *

what were some of the things.

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
4m
Do you approve of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor?
Yes
1%
no
0%
0 votes
·
4 minutes left

in fact. i want to clerk for Justice Sotomayor, and when I'm on the supreme court, i'll opine conservative views with more bravado than Scalia, AND take Sotomayor to the Ballet!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
6m
Do you approve of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor?
Yes
0%
no
0%
0 votes
·
Final results
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
19m
If the Druidic Council approves reimbursement for marijuana, I want to submit medical expense reports for medicinal blow-jobs. You wouldn't believe how therapeutic blow-jobs can be. 

#pontifexmaximus
#druidiccouncil
#writofcertiorari

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3m
I would also like to be reimbursed for the medicinal grade hand-jobs that I've been giving myself. Usually about 10 or so per day, but sometimes more, and I only charge 39 USD per session, and I'm a licensed Hand-Job Therapist!

#pontifexmaximus
#druidiccouncil
#writofcertiorari
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
42s
If the Druidic Council approves reimbursement for Marijuana, I want to submit medical expense reports for medicinal blowjobs. You wouldn't believe how therapeutic blowjobs can be. 

#pontifexmaximus
#druidiccouncil
#writofcertiorari
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
6m
I would also like to be reimbursed for the medicinal grade hand-jobs that I've been giving myself. Usually about 10 or so per day, but sometimes more, and I only charge 39 USD per session. and I'm a fucking licensed Hand-Job Therapist!

#pontifexmaximus
#druidiccouncil
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
6m
I would also like to be reimbursed for the medicinal grade hand-jobs that I've been giving myself. Usually about 10 or so per day, but sometimes more, and I only charge 39 USD per session. and I'm a fucking licensed Hand-Job Therapist!

#pontifexmaximus
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

* * *

Hi,

Starting your own business can be tremendously rewarding, but as any 
entrepreneur knows, you must overcome a lot of fear and uncertainty in 
order to be successful.

Is it possible for me to submit an article on your website that gives 
advice to prospective entrepreneurs on how to overcome the fear of 
beginning a new business?

Please let me know if you like this topic for your website, and I'll get 
started writing.

Thank you very much!
Cameron Ward
cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com

Regards,
Cameron Ward | cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com

Note: This email was sent via the Contact Form gadget on 
http://www.chestnutandhazel.com


* * *·

This post has been edited as of 05/25/2022 11:42 AM after being reported as in Violation of Blogger Community standards

* * *

The main issues that are weighing on my mind right now are: getting into graduate school, paying for graduate school, paying back any student loans that I might accumulate while attending graduate school, completing graduate school without running out of cash and credit, and then finding employment sufficiently remunerative such that any student loans I have to pay back aren't excessively burdensome.

* * *

Even though I might be getting distracted. Or at least I feel like I'm getting distracted. It's possible that I'm getting more done than I think. What is one thing that I would like to get done? Well, complete another Copyright Registration. The issue here isn't time. It's money. I'm already stretched super thin in terms of money, and I really don't have any money to spend on pet projects, but in a way, when I say that, I know that I've spent more on lunches than. You know. Impulse purchases are issues too. you know. and I'm wasting money in one area or another, that should be better used in some other area.

* * *

This is probably a useless thing to point out, but I have a folder for links that I have used in the past, but, don't plan on using anytime soon, they may be specific in some way, like, a specific facebook page. I might not. i obviously don't need to bookmark facebook, but there may be a specific facebook page that i might want to book mark. anyway. i have a specific bookmarks folder for bookmarks that are kind of like that. super specific pages in. anyway. the situation there is that I had folders within my archived bookmark folders. i fixed that issue of having folders within my archived bookmarks folder for bookmarks of pages within websites that i want to bookmark, but the main website doesn't need to be bookmarked. stupid trivial issue.

* * *

Fuck. Let me think for a minute. Incessant distractions. There was something that I was thinking about. Okay. it's about the wash loss rule regarding stock trading. I wouldn't be worrying about this right now, however, I basically did not get. My unemployment insurance claim was not approved, or, disqualified, so I'm basically selling the shares I have in my Robinhood account to cover my current needs, and this also wouldn't be an issue, however, the current market prices of the shares I'm selling are below my cost-basis for the shares that I'm selling.

So I'm selling my fucking shares at a realized loss, and this has the potential to cause me to run afoul of the wash-sale rule in the event that I'm not realizing my capital losses correctly.

You know. There's a fucking correct way to lose money and shit. what a fucking nightmare.

* * *

I'm trying to think about something. Well. It may have been possible that my. that the money I spent on the Meningitis Vaccine for college, would have been paid for by my employer health plan, but I'm not sure.

* * *

What do I need to work on? Okay. I got distracted again. Transcribing notes. working on stuff for my twitter profile. I just can't believe how much time I've been spending on there. There was an Automated Profile, or an Automated Bot Re-Tweeter that caught my attention, and I found it interesting. I ended up experimenting with emojis for a while.

* * *

Thumbnail Choices:

Artists & Scientists: Samuel Finley Breese Morse

Bureaucrats & Legislators: Alexander Hamilton

Entrepreneurs & Magnates: Éleuthère Irénée du Pont de Nemours

Strategists & Tacticians: John Charles Frémont


Thumbnail Choices:

  Artists & Scientists: 
     Samuel Finley Breese Morse
  Bureaucrats & Legislators: 
     Alexander Hamilton
  Entrepreneurs & Magnates: 
     Éleuthère Irénée du Pont de Nemours
  Strategists & Tacticians: 
     John Charles Frémont

What else do I need to work on?

* * *

I really think that these mass tragedies are connected in some way. In a kind of Evil begets Evil kind of way.

* * *

I'm getting fucking distracted again. I had my Unemployment Benefits claim disqualified. My application to the University of Texas at Arlington is complete. I have a start date for work.

What do I need to work on?

* * *I'm trying to think. i think the reason that i get blocked. on twitter. is that if a person's tone is. i don't know. patronizing. or condescending. trivializing. or marginalizing. or snide or snarky. i'll usually adopt a similar tone. and it usually just pisses people off.

* * *

what the hell do I have to do? I have stay off twitter. I've only been blocked a hand full of times. I want to say three. I'm sure i've pissed everyone off. anyway. what i'm thinking about. going back to the completion of my graduate school application. is that. i am really fucking scared. i do have to take out student loans to get through school. and i know that i'll have to pay them back. This is really fucking scary. taking out student loans. and i'm not sure.

but i'm thinking that i really just need to be careful about it. going to graduate school is something that i've been wanting to do for a while. i might as well just do it, and take it as it comes.

* * *

There is a woman on twitter. who. i'm kind of trying to engage in dialogue with, but, i'm afraid that if i interact with her directly. and i say the wrong thing. she'll block me. i think that she's part of the UX debate. which i actually haven't really researched very much. i just sort of. post shit with the tag #UX, and say something.

* * *

This post has been edited as of 05/25/2022 11:42 AM after being reported as in Violation of Blogger Community standards

* * *

The main issues that are weighing on my mind right now are: getting into graduate school, paying for graduate school, paying back any student loans that I might accumulate while attending graduate school, completing graduate school without running out of cash and credit, and then finding employment sufficiently remunerative such that any student loans I have to pay back aren't excessively burdensome.

* * *

Even though I might be getting distracted. Or at least I feel like I'm getting distracted. It's possible that I'm getting more done than I think. What is one thing that I would like to get done? Well, complete another Copyright Registration. The issue here isn't time. It's money. I'm already stretched super thin in terms of money, and I really don't have any money to spend on pet projects, but in a way, when I say that, I know that I've spent more on lunches than. You know. Impulse purchases are issues too. you know. and I'm wasting money in one area or another, that should be better used in some other area.

* * *

This is probably a useless thing to point out, but I have a folder for links that I have used in the past, but, don't plan on using anytime soon, they may be specific in some way, like, a specific facebook page. I might not. i obviously don't need to bookmark facebook, but there may be a specific facebook page that i might want to book mark. anyway. i have a specific bookmarks folder for bookmarks that are kind of like that. super specific pages in. anyway. the situation there is that I had folders within my archived bookmark folders. i fixed that issue of having folders within my archived bookmarks folder for bookmarks of pages within websites that i want to bookmark, but the main website doesn't need to be bookmarked. stupid trivial issue.

* * *

Fuck. Let me think for a minute. Incessant distractions. There was something that I was thinking about. Okay. it's about the wash loss rule regarding stock trading. I wouldn't be worrying about this right now, however, I basically did not get. My unemployment insurance claim was not approved, or, disqualified, so I'm basically selling the shares I have in my Robinhood account to cover my current needs, and this also wouldn't be an issue, however, the current market prices of the shares I'm selling are below my cost-basis for the shares that I'm selling.

So I'm selling my fucking shares at a realized loss, and this has the potential to cause me to run afoul of the wash-sale rule in the event that I'm not realizing my capital losses correctly.

You know. There's a fucking correct way to lose money and shit. what a fucking nightmare.

* * *

I'm trying to think about something. Well. It may have been possible that my. that the money I spent on the Meningitis Vaccine for college, would have been paid for by my employer health plan, but I'm not sure.

* * *

What do I need to work on? Okay. I got distracted again. Transcribing notes. working on stuff for my twitter profile. I just can't believe how much time I've been spending on there. There was an Automated Profile, or an Automated Bot Re-Tweeter that caught my attention, and I found it interesting. I ended up experimenting with emojis for a while.

* * *

Thumbnail Choices:

Artists & Scientists: Samuel Finley Breese Morse

Bureaucrats & Legislators: Alexander Hamilton

Entrepreneurs & Magnates: Éleuthère Irénée du Pont de Nemours

Strategists & Tacticians: John Charles Frémont


Thumbnail Choices:

  Artists & Scientists: 
     Samuel Finley Breese Morse
  Bureaucrats & Legislators: 
     Alexander Hamilton
  Entrepreneurs & Magnates: 
     Éleuthère Irénée du Pont de Nemours
  Strategists & Tacticians: 
     John Charles Frémont

What else do I need to work on?

* * *

I really think that these mass tragedies are connected in some way. In a kind of Evil begets Evil kind of way.

* * *

I'm getting fucking distracted again. I had my Unemployment Benefits claim disqualified. My application to the University of Texas at Arlington is complete. I have a start date for work.

What do I need to work on?

* * *

I'm trying to think. i think the reason that i get blocked. on twitter. is that if a person's tone is. i don't know. patronizing. or condescending. trivializing. or marginalizing. or snide or snarky. i'll usually adopt a similar tone. and it usually just pisses people off.

* * *

what the hell do I have to do? I have stay off twitter. I've only been blocked a hand full of times. I want to say three. I'm sure i've pissed everyone off. anyway. what i'm thinking about. going back to the completion of my graduate school application. is that. i am really fucking scared. i do have to take out student loans to get through school. and i know that i'll have to pay them back. This is really fucking scary. taking out student loans. and i'm not sure.

but i'm thinking that i really just need to be careful about it. going to graduate school is something that i've been wanting to do for a while. i might as well just do it, and take it as it comes.

* * *

There is a woman on twitter. who. i'm kind of trying to engage in dialogue with, but, i'm afraid that if i interact with her directly. and i say the wrong thing. she'll block me. i think that she's part of the UX debate. which i actually haven't really researched very much. i just sort of. post shit with the tag #UX, and say something.

* * *

* * *

The main issues that are weighing on my mind right now are: getting into graduate school, paying for graduate school, paying back any student loans that I might accumulate while attending graduate school, completing graduate school without running out of cash and credit, and then finding employment sufficiently remunerative such that any student loans I have to pay back aren't excessively burdensome.

* * *

Even though I might be getting distracted. Or at least I feel like I'm getting distracted. It's possible that I'm getting more done than I think. What is one thing that I would like to get done? Well, complete another Copyright Registration. The issue here isn't time. It's money. I'm already stretched super thin in terms of money, and I really don't have any money to spend on pet projects, but in a way, when I say that, I know that I've spent more on lunches than. You know. Impulse purchases are issues too. you know. and I'm wasting money in one area or another, that should be better used in some other area.

* * *

This is probably a useless thing to point out, but I have a folder for links that I have used in the past, but, don't plan on using anytime soon, they may be specific in some way, like, a specific facebook page. I might not. i obviously don't need to bookmark facebook, but there may be a specific facebook page that i might want to book mark. anyway. i have a specific bookmarks folder for bookmarks that are kind of like that. super specific pages in. anyway. the situation there is that I had folders within my archived bookmark folders. i fixed that issue of having folders within my archived bookmarks folder for bookmarks of pages within websites that i want to bookmark, but the main website doesn't need to be bookmarked. stupid trivial issue.

* * *

Fuck. Let me think for a minute. Incessant distractions. There was something that I was thinking about. Okay. it's about the wash loss rule regarding stock trading. I wouldn't be worrying about this right now, however, I basically did not get. My unemployment insurance claim was not approved, or, disqualified, so I'm basically selling the shares I have in my Robinhood account to cover my current needs, and this also wouldn't be an issue, however, the current market prices of the shares I'm selling are below my cost-basis for the shares that I'm selling.

So I'm selling my fucking shares at a realized loss, and this has the potential to cause me to run afoul of the wash-sale rule in the event that I'm not realizing my capital losses correctly.

You know. There's a fucking correct way to lose money and shit. what a fucking nightmare.

* * *

I'm trying to think about something. Well. It may have been possible that my. that the money I spent on the Meningitis Vaccine for college, would have been paid for by my employer health plan, but I'm not sure.

* * *

What do I need to work on? Okay. I got distracted again. Transcribing notes. working on stuff for my twitter profile. I just can't believe how much time I've been spending on there. There was an Automated Profile, or an Automated Bot Re-Tweeter that caught my attention, and I found it interesting. I ended up experimenting with emojis for a while.

* * *

Thumbnail Choices:

Artists & Scientists: Samuel Finley Breese Morse

Bureaucrats & Legislators: Alexander Hamilton

Entrepreneurs & Magnates: Éleuthère Irénée du Pont de Nemours

Strategists & Tacticians: John Charles Frémont


Thumbnail Choices:

  Artists & Scientists: 
     Samuel Finley Breese Morse
  Bureaucrats & Legislators: 
     Alexander Hamilton
  Entrepreneurs & Magnates: 
     Éleuthère Irénée du Pont de Nemours
  Strategists & Tacticians: 
     John Charles Frémont

What else do I need to work on?

* * *

I really think that these mass tragedies are connected in some way. In a kind of Evil begets Evil kind of way.

* * *

I'm getting fucking distracted again. I had my Unemployment Benefits claim disqualified. My application to the University of Texas at Arlington is complete. I have a start date for work.

What do I need to work on?

* * *

* * *

Years ago I was at a bar and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian🐊 conspiracy and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians🐙🦑, insectilians🦋, or robotilians🤖.

#DanishCookieUXorious

* * *

Years ago I was at a bar and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian🐊 conspiracy and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians🐙🦑, insectilians🦋, or robotilians🤖.

#DanishCookieUXorious

* * *

Years ago I was at a bar and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian🐊 conspiracy and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians🐙🦑, insectilians🦋, or robotilians🤖.

#DanishCookieUXorious

* * *

I'm trying to think. i think the reason that i get blocked. on twitter. is that if a person's tone is. i don't know. patronizing. or condescending. trivializing. or marginalizing. or snide or snarky. i'll usually adopt a similar tone. and it usually just pisses people off.

* * *

what the hell do I have to do? I have stay off twitter. I've only been blocked a hand full of times. I want to say three. I'm sure i've pissed everyone off. anyway. what i'm thinking about. going back to the completion of my graduate school application. is that. i am really fucking scared. i do have to take out student loans to get through school. and i know that i'll have to pay them back. This is really fucking scary. taking out student loans. and i'm not sure.

but i'm thinking that i really just need to be careful about it. going to graduate school is something that i've been wanting to do for a while. i might as well just do it, and take it as it comes.

* * *

There is a woman on twitter. who. i'm kind of trying to engage in dialogue with, but, i'm afraid that if i interact with her directly. and i say the wrong thing. she'll block me. i think that she's part of the UX debate. which i actually haven't really researched very much. i just sort of. post shit with the tag #UX, and say something.

* * *

I'm just trying to think.

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
14m
🤖
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
1h
The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that they seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the dark web by SN: 
Val Pin the 666th

evil6doers6unite6. onion / ru / lat6lon6 / bounty6coins / luv6vladimir6putin666

#vladimirputin

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that they seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the illicit internet or dark web posted by Vladimir Nikita Stalin:

evil666doers666unite666. onion / ru / lat666lon666 / bounty666coins / luv666vladimir666putin666

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that these seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the illicit internet or dark web posted by Vladimir Nikita Stalin:

evil666doers666unite666. onion / ru / lat666lon666/ bounty 666coins / luv666vladimir666putin666
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that these seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the dark web / illicit internet posted by Vladimir Nikita Stalin:

evil666doers666unite666. onion / ru / lat666lon666/ bounty 666coins / luv666vladimir666putin666

* * *

I didn't go to bunriths funeral. not because i didn't care to go or because i thought that i
had more important things to do. but. the issue was that i didn't want to go back
to the bay area. i was fucking homeless my last few months there, and even though
i don't feel like my life was totally bad during those months of homelessness. i just
harbored a hell of a lot of resentment for the way that things went.

* * *

notes and reflections

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that these seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the dark web / illicit internet posted by Vladimir Nikita Stalin:

evil666doers666unite666. onion / ru / lat666lon666bounty /666coins / luv666vladimir666putin666
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that these seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the dark web / illicit internet posted by Vladimir Nikita Stalin:

evil666doers666unite!666. onion / lat122lon666bounty .666coins / luv666vladimir666putin666
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h

* * *

🤖What powerful but 
unrecorded race👽
🐨Once dwelt in that 
annihilated place🗿

* * *

#variationonathemebyhoracesmith
#bykennethlarotyamatfor
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
🤖🙂👽🐵🐼🐸🐨
🐉🐢🐒🦞🦀🦑🐙
🦂🦗🐜🐞🦋🗿👻

🏚️🎱♟️👾🔫

🥇🚿🏅🚿🍋🚿
🌕🚿✉️🚿📀🚿

🤏🥖🧮🐛🗜️🍌🔩
🌽📏🥒📐🥕📷🌶️

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
🤖👽🐨🗿
📓👻⚙️💀

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
4h
🤖👽🐨🗿📓👻⚙️

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
4h
🤖What powerful but 
unrecorded race👽
🐨Once dwelt in that 
annihilated place🗿

#DanishCookieUXorious

* * *

How is computer science
different from software

notes
programming language
software and electrical 
computer stuff
design

* * *

what were some of the things.

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
4m
Do you approve of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor?
Yes
1%
no
0%
0 votes
·
4 minutes left

in fact. i want to clerk for Justice Sotomayor, and when I'm on the supreme court, i'll opine conservative views with more bravado than Scalia, AND take Sotomayor to the Ballet!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
6m
Do you approve of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor?
Yes
0%
no
0%
0 votes
·
Final results
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
19m
If the Druidic Council approves reimbursement for marijuana, I want to submit medical expense reports for medicinal blow-jobs. You wouldn't believe how therapeutic blow-jobs can be. 

#pontifexmaximus
#druidiccouncil
#writofcertiorari

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3m
I would also like to be reimbursed for the medicinal grade hand-jobs that I've been giving myself. Usually about 10 or so per day, but sometimes more, and I only charge 39 USD per session, and I'm a licensed Hand-Job Therapist!

#pontifexmaximus
#druidiccouncil
#writofcertiorari
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
42s
If the Druidic Council approves reimbursement for Marijuana, I want to submit medical expense reports for medicinal blowjobs. You wouldn't believe how therapeutic blowjobs can be. 

#pontifexmaximus
#druidiccouncil
#writofcertiorari
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
6m
I would also like to be reimbursed for the medicinal grade hand-jobs that I've been giving myself. Usually about 10 or so per day, but sometimes more, and I only charge 39 USD per session. and I'm a fucking licensed Hand-Job Therapist!

#pontifexmaximus
#druidiccouncil
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
6m
I would also like to be reimbursed for the medicinal grade hand-jobs that I've been giving myself. Usually about 10 or so per day, but sometimes more, and I only charge 39 USD per session. and I'm a fucking licensed Hand-Job Therapist!

#pontifexmaximus
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

* * *





alright, here it goes:

life should be easy, if it's not easy, try to make it easy, i just can't believe how difficult everything is right now. for me. i can't believe the fucking. struggles i'm facing. i can't fucking believe that my life isn't easier than it is. i don't know why my life is difficult, and why it seems to be getting more difficult.

i really don't know why life has to be difficult. why? life should be easy.

* * * 

Objectives

My life is difficult, and full of challenges. I want to have a life that is easy, and void of any challenges.

My objective in life, is to have an easy life.

* * *

Education
    - UTA: Student Loans and Financial Aid
    - UTA: Internships
    - UTA: University Career Resources
    - Equipment: Computer
Publishing
    - Copyrights: indefinite hiatus
    - Copyrights: innocuous posts
    - Copyrights: Letters from Sanford Street
Domestic & Personal
    - Vehicle Registration

* * *

Let's think about this. my life is difficult right now. as far as i can tell, my income is going to be only slightly above my living expenses. i also don't anticipate my life getting easier. my life has never become easier. it's only ever become more difficult.

my expected income for the next 12 months is only slightly higher than my expected expenses for the same time period.

to me, this means the next 12 months are going to be a total fucking waste of time.

unless I get accepted, admitted, and enrolled at UTA, and complete the program, and get the degree.

fucking nightmare.

* * *

Oh, I actually didn't use the word admitted incorrectly. I used the phrase "accepted, but never attended" so. I didn't use the word "admitted" incorrectly, because i didn't use the word "admitted"

I fucking hate quotation marks.

anyway, maybe I used admitted in my educational objectives essay incorrectly. I'm not going to worry about it right now.

* * *

Review and Research Options for a 

* * *

Let me think. Okay. another thing. I'm not going to worry about electives right now. I'll figure that out later as well.

    - Electives: Spanish
    - Electives: Mathematics
            - Data Science
            - Statistics
            - Insurance
            - Accounting
    - Electives: Programming
            - Information Systems
            - Industrial & Manufacturing Systems
            - Computer Science
            - Communications Technology
            - Business Analytics
    - Electives: Finance Outside of Finance 
            - Urban Design
            - Real Estate
            - Landscape Architecture
            - Interior Design
            - Insurance
            - Architecture
            - Economics
            - City & Regional Planning

* * *

So I guess I've been using the word admitted incorrectly. Idiot. Anyway. I uploaded this email from UNLV to be included in my UTA application, and this might be the end of the application process. So. Yeah, I don't really know what else to do right now. Let me think. From the context of the situation, acceptance is a kind of invitation to enroll. i guess. and admitted is when you're in. so accepted and admitted are two different things. idiot.

well. yeah. i guess i can butt hurt for a few hours.

"To Whom It May Concern: Kenneth Yamat (DoB: 08/14/1987) is not and has never been an admitted student of University of Nevada Las Vegas. The student admissions application was cancelled. As of this date, the student has never enrolled or attended any classes at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. The student has not earned any college credit at the university. If you have any other questions, please feel free to contact me."

* * *

Anyway. I figured out how to deal with that issue. I just created a filter so that they never show up in my mailbox again.

* * *

My life is just too difficult right now for me to do anything other than hang tight and see what happens next. I can't do anything. I can't do anything like start a company, or anything like that.

* * *

I got another email from Viator, Inc. requesting that I update this or that to comply with new legal requirements or whatever, but this only applies to people who own a tour company, and I don't own a tour company, so it doesn't apply to me.

I thought briefly about starting one, but I just don't see how this would work, so I won't be starting one.

* * *

The only thing that makes sense for me to do right now is wait until UTA makes a decision on my application. There's really nothing else that I can do, and no other course of action really makes any sense what so ever.

* * *

My life is difficult right now. Everything is more or less on pause until thing get easier, and they more or less never get easier.

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that they seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the illicit internet or dark web posted by Vladimir Nikita Stalin:

evil666doers666unite666. onion / ru / lat666lon666 / bounty666coins / luv666vladimir666putin666

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that these seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the illicit internet or dark web posted by Vladimir Nikita Stalin:

evil666doers666unite666. onion / ru / lat666lon666/ bounty 666coins / luv666vladimir666putin666
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that these seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the dark web / illicit internet posted by Vladimir Nikita Stalin:

evil666doers666unite666. onion / ru / lat666lon666/ bounty 666coins / luv666vladimir666putin666

* * *

I didn't go to bunriths funeral. not because i didn't care to go or because i thought that i
had more important things to do. but. the issue was that i didn't want to go back
to the bay area. i was fucking homeless my last few months there, and even though
i don't feel like my life was totally bad during those months of homelessness. i just
harbored a hell of a lot of resentment for the way that things went.

* * *

notes and reflections

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that these seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the dark web / illicit internet posted by Vladimir Nikita Stalin:

evil666doers666unite666. onion / ru / lat666lon666bounty /666coins / luv666vladimir666putin666
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that these seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the dark web / illicit internet posted by Vladimir Nikita Stalin:

evil666doers666unite!666. onion / lat122lon666bounty .666coins / luv666vladimir666putin666
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h

* * *

🤖What powerful but 
unrecorded race👽
🐨Once dwelt in that 
annihilated place🗿

* * *

#variationonathemebyhoracesmith
#bykennethlarotyamatfor
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
🤖🙂👽🐵🐼🐸🐨
🐉🐢🐒🦞🦀🦑🐙
🦂🦗🐜🐞🦋🗿👻

🏚️🎱♟️👾🔫

🥇🚿🏅🚿🍋🚿
🌕🚿✉️🚿📀🚿

🤏🥖🧮🐛🗜️🍌🔩
🌽📏🥒📐🥕📷🌶️

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
🤖👽🐨🗿
📓👻⚙️💀

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
4h
🤖👽🐨🗿📓👻⚙️

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
4h
🤖What powerful but 
unrecorded race👽
🐨Once dwelt in that 
annihilated place🗿

#DanishCookieUXorious

* * *

How is computer science
different from software

notes
programming language
software and electrical 
computer stuff
design

* * *

what were some of the things.

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
4m
Do you approve of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor?
Yes
1%
no
0%
0 votes
·
4 minutes left

in fact. i want to clerk for Justice Sotomayor, and when I'm on the supreme court, i'll opine conservative views with more bravado than Scalia, AND take Sotomayor to the Ballet!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
6m
Do you approve of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor?
Yes
0%
no
0%
0 votes
·
Final results
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
19m
If the Druidic Council approves reimbursement for marijuana, I want to submit medical expense reports for medicinal blow-jobs. You wouldn't believe how therapeutic blow-jobs can be. 

#pontifexmaximus
#druidiccouncil
#writofcertiorari

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3m
I would also like to be reimbursed for the medicinal grade hand-jobs that I've been giving myself. Usually about 10 or so per day, but sometimes more, and I only charge 39 USD per session, and I'm a licensed Hand-Job Therapist!

#pontifexmaximus
#druidiccouncil
#writofcertiorari
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
42s
If the Druidic Council approves reimbursement for Marijuana, I want to submit medical expense reports for medicinal blowjobs. You wouldn't believe how therapeutic blowjobs can be. 

#pontifexmaximus
#druidiccouncil
#writofcertiorari
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
6m
I would also like to be reimbursed for the medicinal grade hand-jobs that I've been giving myself. Usually about 10 or so per day, but sometimes more, and I only charge 39 USD per session. and I'm a fucking licensed Hand-Job Therapist!

#pontifexmaximus
#druidiccouncil
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
6m
I would also like to be reimbursed for the medicinal grade hand-jobs that I've been giving myself. Usually about 10 or so per day, but sometimes more, and I only charge 39 USD per session. and I'm a fucking licensed Hand-Job Therapist!

#pontifexmaximus
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

* * *

Hi,

Starting your own business can be tremendously rewarding, but as any 
entrepreneur knows, you must overcome a lot of fear and uncertainty in 
order to be successful.

Is it possible for me to submit an article on your website that gives 
advice to prospective entrepreneurs on how to overcome the fear of 
beginning a new business?

Please let me know if you like this topic for your website, and I'll get 
started writing.

Thank you very much!
Cameron Ward
cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com

Regards,
Cameron Ward | cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com

Note: This email was sent via the Contact Form gadget on 
http://www.chestnutandhazel.com

* * *





Objectives

Education
    - UTA: Student Loans and Financial Aid
    - UTA: Internships
    - UTA: University Career Resources
    - Electives: Spanish
    - Electives: Mathematics
            - Data Science
            - Statistics
            - Insurance
            - Accounting
    - Electives: Programming
            - Information Systems
            - Industrial & Manufacturing Systems
            - Computer Science
            - Communications Technology
            - Business Analytics
    - Electives: Finance Outside of Finance 
            - Urban Design
            - Real Estate
            - Landscape Architecture
            - Interior Design
            - Insurance
            - Architecture
            - Economics
            - City & Regional Planning
    - Equipment: Review and Research Options for a Computer
Publishing
    - Copyrights: indefinite hiatus
    - Copyrights: innocuous posts
    - Copyrights: Letters from Sanford Street
Domestic & Personal
    - Vehicle Registration

* * *

I'm taking this off my list because i think it's good to go. or i guess. i think my application is as complete as it's ever going to be, given the timetable, and if there is something fucked up, and i can't resolve it before the summer semester starts, then i'll just reapply for some other semester, like maybe the fall. 

    - UTA: Admissions and Deadlines

* * *

I want to write something flirtatious. i feel like she's flirting back. or maybe not, maybe just responding, but um.

i've been too.

i've been. i've

i don't know how to explain it.

i guess. i've imagined.

i don't know what the correct words are for this. 

sometimes i'll think that a woman is flirting with me, or is interested in me, and she really isn't.

* * *

I'm facing a challenge here. and I think I might know what the issue is. i think that i know what it is. and this is a pain in the ass.

I guess what I was suspecting, turned out not to be the case.

There is another possibility.

My thinking is that there is a scheduled transaction or a scheduled payment that I either did not account for, or accounted for incorrectly.

Well, I have a stop-gap measure. or. i figured a way to deal with it for the time being.

I just don't know what it is. I think that one account has more money in it than it should, which is the same amount that this other account seems to be short by.

I'll deal with it later. I mean. i deal with it more thoroughly later. Just eyeballing it, I think this to be the case.

So all those transfers are accounted for.

okay. i want to make a distinction between two things, there are pending transactions on the side of the remitter, and pending transactions on the side of the payee, i had to look up these terms.

there are pending transactions, and there are scheduled transactions, and there are pending transactions on the side of the payee, and pending transactions on the side of the remitter, then there are scheduled transactions on the side of the payee, and scheduled transactions on the part of the remitter.

one thing i want to also make a distinction about is that remitter in this case just refers to a person sending money in a general sense, i'm not using remitter to specifically refer to someone sending money, or a remittance, internationally.

* * *

    - Electives: Languages
            - Arabic
            - Classics
            - Communication Studies
            - Latin
            - Linguistics
            - History
            - Geography

* * *

There's something on my mind. Hum. I was really thirsty this morning. Um the other thing was that I want to reformat the top portion of my posts. The objects area.

* * *

There is something on my mind, that I'm really afraid about. I don't have any fucking friends. I'm actually afraid to make friends. I'm afraid of dating. I really am. I'm actually afraid of dating. I remember, sometimes there were people. sometimes there were women I would cross-paths with, and sometimes I would be interested in. or. maybe pursuing this woman or that woman. but i would always have these. i would always harbor these fears in the back of my mind. even when i didn't exactly have a whole hell of a lot. even when i wasn't harboring a whole hell of a lot on insecurities. fears really.

There are other things too. i'm afraid of everything. and. i don't know. there are fucking so many things going on right now.

i went on a short road trip. and it was more or less pointless.

Even though i sometimes. although i feel discouraged. sometimes. about how my life is going. i do remember taking an objective view of my life a while back. and. i did conclude that things are getting better for me. there are new difficulties that i've faced lately. and i want to say that. even though i've faced a hell of a lot of set backs recently. these set backs aren't as gigantic as set backs i've had before. i've had bigger set backs than the ones i've faced recently.

I just really hope that this is the end of the set backs, and that from here. i can begin progressing. i have been discouraged lately. i really have been.

* * *

Objective Items Resolved: - Reduce Clutter / NotPassword:	

* * *

Hi,

Starting your own business can be tremendously rewarding, but as any 
entrepreneur knows, you must overcome a lot of fear and uncertainty in 
order to be successful.

Is it possible for me to submit an article on your website that gives 
advice to prospective entrepreneurs on how to overcome the fear of 
beginning a new business?

Please let me know if you like this topic for your website, and I'll get 
started writing.

Thank you very much!
Cameron Ward
cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com

Regards,
Cameron Ward | cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com

Note: This email was sent via the Contact Form gadget on 
http://www.chestnutandhazel.com

* * *·

13m
If the Druidic Council approves reimbursement for Marijuana, I want to submit medical expense reports for medicinal blowjobs. You wouldn't believe how therapeutic blowjobs can be. 

#pontifexmaximus
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 14
... and, I guess in that vein, I guess I should no longer refer to my 7.5 inch Johnson as a form of currency, even though it is surely a 7.5 inch money maker!

#inflation 
#filipinodollar
#filipinopeso
#filipinodong
#filipinowang
#filipinorouble

* * *

Thumbnail Choices:

Artists & Scientists: Samuel Finley Breese Morse

Bureaucrats & Legislators: Alexander Hamilton

Entrepreneurs & Magnates: Éleuthère Irénée du Pont de Nemours

Strategists & Tacticians: John Charles Frémont

Thumbnail Choices:

  Artists & Scientists: 
     Samuel Finley Breese Morse
  Bureaucrats & Legislators: 
     Alexander Hamilton
  Entrepreneurs & Magnates: 
     Éleuthère Irénée du Pont de Nemours
  Strategists & Tacticians: 
     John Charles Frémont

What else do I need to work on?

* * *

I really think that these mass tragedies are connected in some way. In a kind of Evil begets Evil kind of way.

* * *

I'm getting fucking distracted again. I had my Unemployment Benefits claim disqualified. My application to the University of Texas at Arlington is complete. I have a start date for work.

What do I need to work on?

* * *

Years ago I was at a bar and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian🐊 conspiracy and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians🐙🦑, insectilians🦋, or robotilians🤖.

#DanishCookieUXorious

* * *

Years ago I was at a bar and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian🐊 conspiracy and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians🐙🦑, insectilians🦋, or robotilians🤖.

#DanishCookieUXorious

* * *

Years ago I was at a bar and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian🐊 conspiracy and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians🐙🦑, insectilians🦋, or robotilians🤖.

#DanishCookieUXorious

* * *

I'm trying to think. i think the reason that i get blocked. on twitter. is that if a person's tone is. i don't know. patronizing. or condescending. trivializing. or marginalizing. or snide or snarky. i'll usually adopt a similar tone. and it usually just pisses people off.

* * *

what the hell do I have to do? I have stay off twitter. I've only been blocked a hand full of times. I want to say three. I'm sure i've pissed everyone off. anyway. what i'm thinking about. going back to the completion of my graduate school application. is that. i am really fucking scared. i do have to take out student loans to get through school. and i know that i'll have to pay them back. This is really fucking scary. taking out student loans. and i'm not sure.

but i'm thinking that i really just need to be careful about it. going to graduate school is something that i've been wanting to do for a while. i might as well just do it, and take it as it comes.

* * *

There is a woman on twitter. who. i'm kind of trying to engage in dialogue with, but, i'm afraid that if i interact with her directly. and i say the wrong thing. she'll block me. i think that she's part of the UX debate. which i actually haven't really researched very much. i just sort of. post shit with the tag #UX, and say something.

* * *

I'm just trying to think.

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
14m
🤖
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
1h
The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that they seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the dark web by SN: 
Val Pin the 666th

evil6doers6unite6. onion / ru / lat6lon6 / bounty6coins / luv6vladimir6putin666

#vladimirputin

* * *




Objectives

Education
    - UTA: Admissions and Deadlines
    - UTA: Student Loans and Financial Aid
    - UTA: Internships
    - UTA: University Career Resources
    - Electives: Languages
            - Arabic
            - Classics
            - Communication Studies
            - Latin
            - Linguistics
            - History
            - Geography
    - Electives: Mathematics
            - Data Science
            - Statistics
            - Insurance
            - Accounting
    - Electives: Programming
            - Information Systems
            - Industrial & Manufacturing Systems
            - Computer Science
            - Communications Technology
            - Business Analytics
    - Electives: Finance Outside of Finance 
            - Urban Design
            - Real Estate
            - Landscape Architecture
            - Interior Design
            - Insurance
            - Architecture
            - Economics
            - City & Regional Planning
    - Equipment: Computer
Publishing
    - Copyrights: indefinite hiatus
    - Copyrights: innocuous posts
    - Copyrights: Letters from Sanford Street
Domestic & Personal
    - Reduce Clutter
    - Vehicle Registration

* * *

Well, what are the possibilities? Um, there might be some administrative hang-up that might cause my application of fall through the cracks.

I realize something: I have to be slightly more realistic about what electives I sign up for.

And. Fucking. Twitter MILFs! I have to stay off there.

Twitter porn isn't any better than Instagram porn or anything else. but it's distracting.

* * *

Finally home. I can't believe I did that silly shit. Jesus. Thank God I'm home. Anyway. I'm going to stop reading the news for the foreseeable future.

* * *

I'm just so angry about everything. Really. I am. I went on a road trip today as kind of an elaborate joke, but, I mean. It wasn't that funny. I'm at this rest stop that I remember stopping at 4 years ago.

I'm angry. About everything. Everything irritates me and few things really ever make me happy anymore. I'm just so unhappy.

Maybe things will turn around. Maybe things will get more amazing, rather than more. Rather than more. I don't know. Everything sucks.

* * *

This a nightmare. a real nightmare. fuck. so what the hell do i do? this is really fucking disappointing. disappointing.

* * *

I never had a chance to really correspond with the person who wrote me that submissions email, regarding entrepreneurship and starting a business. i really. have no intention of ever starting a business. i guess. this. chestnut and hazel. chestnut + hazel. is a business. and i guess i started one, even if it has never been something that really ever made me any money. maybe it will make me money, but, it hasn't done so yet.

* * *

alright. so that's kind of nice. the data hotspot connection is working now.

* * *

There are a number of things that I just find kind of irritating. I only have 10 GB of hotspot data included in my monthly plan. included in my phone plan. usually, that's more than enough. in the past i was never really home to really use very much date, but this month, it turned out not to be enough. sucks. right now i just need a little more data, well, the month resets today, or it should have done so yesterday, but i'm still waiting. the slowed connection is enough for things that aren't really data heavy, like blogging. but more than that, and i'm really not able to access anything.

i feel like i'm in this constant state of making less money. that i'm always in this spiral of making less money, and having higher expenses, and things are just on the whole aren't really improving. i know that in many ways, things really are improving for me.

I don't know what I would have done differently if i could have gone back and done something differently.

    - (X) Credit Cards / payments scheduled

Employment
    - Internships
    - University Career Resources
    - Relocation Opportunities

I'm going to add these objectives to the education section. or move these or whatever, rather than have these a separate category.

* * *

I have a neighbor who tries to chat with me. or. maybe she chats at me. or talks at me. but she doesn't seem to be interested in talking with me. and what i mean is. she goes on and on about something, but when i try to talk with her. when i try to ask a question. or when i try to interject. or when i have something to say. she always replies that she can't hear me.

so my conclusion is. if she can't hear me, there is no point in me listening to her. we won't have a conversation if she can't hear me. if i listen to what she says. or if i don't listen to what she says. she's a broken record. as far as i can tell.

she talks to me. she doesn't. or she can't hear anything that i say when i respond. and she also can't see either. so when i try to write a response she says she can't see it.

so i'm thinking that. the only reason i should listen to her is if she expects to engage in a conversation, and if she doesn't expect to engage in a conversation. i might as well not listen to her. she only ever talks about useless stuff. conspiracies and stuff that, quite frankly, is essentially useless conversation topics.

* * *

I was able to compile all the posts for the indefinite hiatus series. it was short. just 62 posts in total. really short. i'll file a copyright in the morning. and then maybe i'll work on the innocuous posts series. i think about thinking about when. you try. i think about the times i want to look back at things. and how. looking back isn't really always a pleasant feeling.

i don't know why life isn't easier than it is. i really don't.

* * *

Salt. salt. i feel like garbage. i really feel like garbage. i'm really not feeling happy about anything.

* * *

I think I'm going to draft a kind of tactical plan of action or something. for. school. you know. as silly as that sounds.

* * *

I remember something from a while ago. a conversation i had with another guy when I was working at the book factory. he was obsessed with cryptocurrency. I never really ever got into cryptocurrency, and i felt like he was trying to get me into cryptocurrency, or trying to sell me on the idea of cryptocurrency, by mocking me for not being into cryptocurrency.

I feel like there is a sales tactic, and this sales tactic is something like: create in someone a sense of inadequacy, or indignity, or feelings of insecurity.

I felt like the whole idea was that, if i didn't know anything about cryptocurrency, than i was clearly an idiot.

* * *

I'm already feeling quite a bit of frustration getting all these posts together. Like really annoyed.

* * *

I'm working on compiling, consolidating, or amalgamating all of the posts in the indefinite hiatus series into a single document that. a single text document that i can submit for registration to the copyright office. some of these posts are taking forever to load.

* * *

I really don't like the way I look. am i a jerk for being cynical about that whole thing. i don't know. i'll need better explanations about how this whole dating thing works before i really put any more effort into it.

* * *

I really don't like the way my face looks. I really am going to delete this online dating profile, and then do something else. Well, I don't know. I really don't know. I really have no idea what to do about that. on the one hand, people think that you're weird if you don't do a whole lot of dating, or, if you don't seem to be interested in dating.

* * *

Alright. In spite of the fact that I really am annoyed by the whole dating stuff. I decided to upload a new photograph of myself to Plenty of Fish, and I really don't like this photograph of myself. It's a garbage quality photograph of myself. and I really do not like it.

Maybe I have to take pictures in front of something, like, I don't fucking know, the grand canyon or something. some kind of amazing geological feature. or something.

* * *

Where did you go on your first date? Answer: we went to the place above the orange tree in the place above the pomegranate tree where the rainbow spills over into the next place above the orange sky.

* * *

I'm going to write off dating and relationships as more or less a pointless pursuit. Waste of fucking money. Really. I wonder why I spent money on the Plenty of Fish subscription. The app and website have more or less become webcam porn platforms. fucking waste of time. fucking waste of money. I may consider deleting the account and moving on. i really have to write that off as a non-worthwhile pursuit. i'm just so frustrated about it.

maybe there are all kinds of dating advice. stuff. out there, but nothing has really ever worked for me. um. and i just hate doing it anyway.

* * *

I don't know what to do about the sort of dating and relationships aspect of life. I really have a lot of doubts when it comes to online dating. I'm never sure if the person on the other side has any real intention of dating, or, is just looking to kill time. I really don't. and that's the thing about dating. is the other person just looking to kill time, or is the other person interested in. you know.

i really don't want to sign up for any more online dating accounts. I signed up for Plenty of Fish on the basis of most articles saying it's the best option for anyone looking for a hook-up, and. honestly. i didn't get a single hook-up. fucking waste of money. fucking waste of time. real waste.

and i resent the idea, or the cultural attitude that i should be looking for something other than a hook-up. i simply don't understand it. i simply don't understand why i would want something other than a hook-up. i really don't. i really fucking don't. and i hate saying that. i don't understand it.

* * *

What I mean is. I don't want to change too much with my blog in terms of making any serious style changes.

* * *

I really don't want to change anything here. At least not any time soon. I mean. I really don't want to change anything with my blog any time soon.

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Now
Another reason is that many employers offer tuition and education reimbursement incentives. It's not really a huge indignity to bag groceries, or pour coffee, or pack boxes, or count cash.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13s
Another reason is that many employers offer tuition and education reimbursement incentives. It's not really a hug indignity to bag groceries, or pour coffee, or pack boxes, or count cash.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
38s
Another reason is that many employers offer tuition and education reimbursement incentives. It's not really an indignity to bag groceries, or pour coffee, or pack boxes, or count cash.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
5m
The reason I'm not entirely in favor of student loan forgiveness is this: education expenses receive a tax credit, a portion of student loan payments are tax deductible, so anyone receiving student loan forgiveness is triple dipping at the tax-payer's expense.

#usedgov
@usedgov
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
7m
One of the reasons I'm not entirely in favor of student loan forgiveness is that: qualified education expenses receive a tax credit, a portion of student loan payments are tax deductible, so anyone receiving student loan forgiveness is triple dipping at the tax-payer's expense.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
5h
If Vladimir Putin thinks he's going to win: he's got another thing coming! Anglozilla and Danezilla are coming for Sovietzilla!

#vladimirputin:-(
#anglozilla!
#danezilla!
#sovietzilla:-(

* * *

Tax Pin IRS 2020 Tax Year

* * *

🤖What powerful but 
unrecorded race👽
🐨Once dwelt in that 
annihilated place🗿

* * *

#variationonathemebyhoracesmith
#bykennethlarotyamatfor
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
🤖🙂👽🐵🐼🐸🐨
🐉🐢🐒🦞🦀🦑🐙
🦂🦗🐜🐞🦋🗿👻

🏚️🎱♟️👾🔫

🥇🚿🏅🚿🍋🚿
🌕🚿✉️🚿📀🚿

🤏🥖🧮🐛🗜️🍌🔩
🌽📏🥒📐🥕📷🌶️

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
🤖👽🐨🗿
📓👻⚙️💀

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
4h
🤖👽🐨🗿📓👻⚙️

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
4h
🤖What powerful but 
unrecorded race👽
🐨Once dwelt in that 
annihilated place🗿

#DanishCookieUXorious

* * *

How is computer science
different from software

notes
programming language
software and electrical 
computer stuff
design

* * *

what were some of the things.

* * *

[Chestnut + Hazel] New message received.
Trash

Blogger Contact Form <no-reply@blogger.com>
Wed, May 4, 2:08 AM
to me, submissions

This message has been deleted. Restore message
Hi,

Starting your own business can be tremendously rewarding, but as any 
entrepreneur knows, you must overcome a lot of fear and uncertainty in 
order to be successful.

Is it possible for me to submit an article on your website that gives 
advice to prospective entrepreneurs on how to overcome the fear of 
beginning a new business?

Please let me know if you like this topic for your website, and I'll get 
started writing.

Thank you very much!
Cameron Ward
cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com

Regards,
Cameron Ward | cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com

Note: This email was sent via the Contact Form gadget on 
http://www.chestnutandhazel.com

Kenneth Larot Yamat <kenneth.larot.yamat@gmail.com>
Wed, May 4, 8:30 AM
to Cameron

This message has been deleted. Restore message
Greetings Cameron Ward:

I'm interested in listening to what you have to say, however, this
website is just a place where I put my personal notes.

Sincerely,

Kenneth Larot Yamat
info@chestnutandhazel.com

On Wed, May 4, 2022 at 2:08 AM Blogger Contact Form
<no-reply@blogger.com> wrote:
>
> Hi,
>
> Starting your own business can be tremendously rewarding, but as any
> entrepreneur knows, you must overcome a lot of fear and uncertainty in
> order to be successful.
>
> Is it possible for me to submit an article on your website that gives
> advice to prospective entrepreneurs on how to overcome the fear of
> beginning a new business?
>
> Please let me know if you like this topic for your website, and I'll get
> started writing.
>
> Thank you very much!
> Cameron Ward
> cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com
>
> Regards,
> Cameron Ward | cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com
>
> Note: This email was sent via the Contact Form gadget on
> http://www.chestnutandhazel.com

Kenneth Larot Yamat <info@chestnutandhazel.com>
Tue, May 10, 4:12 PM
to Cameron

This message has been deleted. Restore message
Greetings Cameron Ward:

My apologies for previously replying from my personal email. I wanted
to ask what email system you use for your website? and what web
hosting service do you use? What domain registration service do you
use?

Sincerely,

Kenneth Larot Yamat

On Wed, May 4, 2022 at 2:08 AM Blogger Contact Form
<no-reply@blogger.com> wrote:
>
> Hi,
>
> Starting your own business can be tremendously rewarding, but as any
> entrepreneur knows, you must overcome a lot of fear and uncertainty in
> order to be successful.
>
> Is it possible for me to submit an article on your website that gives
> advice to prospective entrepreneurs on how to overcome the fear of
> beginning a new business?
>
> Please let me know if you like this topic for your website, and I'll get
> started writing.
>
> Thank you very much!
> Cameron Ward
> cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com
>
> Regards,
> Cameron Ward | cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com
>
> Note: This email was sent via the Contact Form gadget on
> http://www.chestnutandhazel.com

Mail Delivery Subsystem
Tue, May 10, 4:12 PM
to me

This message has been deleted. Restore message
Error Icon
Message not delivered
You're sending this from a different address or alias using the 'Send mail as' feature. The settings for your 'Send mail as' account are misconfigured or out of date. Check those settings and try resending.
LEARN MORE
The response from the remote server was:
535 5.7.8 Username and Password not accepted. Learn more at https://support.google.com/mail/?p=BadCredentials u18-20020ac858d2000000b002f39b99f696sm30009qta.48 - gsmtp

---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Kenneth Larot Yamat <info@chestnutandhazel.com>
To: Cameron Ward <cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com>
Cc: 
Bcc: 
Date: Tue, 10 May 2022 16:12:39 -0500
Subject: Re: [Chestnut + Hazel] New message received.
Greetings Cameron Ward:

My apologies for previously replying from my personal email. I wanted
to ask what email system you use for your website? and what web
hosting service do you use? What domain registration service do you
use?

Sincerely,

Kenneth Larot Yamat

On Wed, May 4, 2022 at 2:08 AM Blogger Contact Form
<no-reply@blogger.com> wrote:
>
> Hi,
>
> Starting your own business can be tremendously rewarding, but as any
> entrepreneur knows, you must overcome a lot of fear and uncertainty in
> order to be successful.
>
> Is it possible for me to submit an article on your website that gives
> advice to prospective entrepreneurs on how to overcome the fear of
> beginning a new business?
>
> Please let me know if you like this topic for your website, and I'll get
> started writing.
>
> Thank you very much!
> Cameron Ward
> cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com
>
> Regards,
> Cameron Ward | cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com
>
> Note: This email was sent via the Contact Form gadget on
> http://www.chestnutandhazel.com

Kenneth Larot Yamat <info@chestnutandhazel.com>
Tue, May 10, 4:56 PM
to Cameron

This message has been deleted. Restore message

Greetings Cameron Ward:

My apologies for previously replying from my personal email. I wanted
to ask what email system you use for your website? and what web
hosting service do you use? What domain registration service do you
use?

Sincerely,

Kenneth Larot Yamat

On Wed, May 4, 2022 at 2:08 AM Blogger Contact Form
<no-reply@blogger.com> wrote:
>
> Hi,
>
> Starting your own business can be tremendously rewarding, but as any
> entrepreneur knows, you must overcome a lot of fear and uncertainty in
> order to be successful.
>
> Is it possible for me to submit an article on your website that gives
> advice to prospective entrepreneurs on how to overcome the fear of
> beginning a new business?
>
> Please let me know if you like this topic for your website, and I'll get
> started writing.
>
> Thank you very much!
> Cameron Ward
> cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com
>
> Regards,
> Cameron Ward | cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com
>
> Note: This email was sent via the Contact Form gadget on
> http://www.chestnutandhazel.com

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
4m
Do you approve of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor?
Yes
1%
no
0%
0 votes
·
4 minutes left

in fact. i want to clerk for Justice Sotomayor, and when I'm on the supreme court, i'll opine conservative views with more bravado than Scalia, AND take Sotomayor to the Ballet!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
6m
Do you approve of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor?
Yes
0%
no
0%
0 votes
·
Final results
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
19m
If the Druidic Council approves reimbursement for marijuana, I want to submit medical expense reports for medicinal blow-jobs. You wouldn't believe how therapeutic blow-jobs can be. 

#pontifexmaximus
#druidiccouncil
#writofcertiorari

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3m
I would also like to be reimbursed for the medicinal grade hand-jobs that I've been giving myself. Usually about 10 or so per day, but sometimes more, and I only charge 39 USD per session, and I'm a licensed Hand-Job Therapist!

#pontifexmaximus
#druidiccouncil
#writofcertiorari
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
42s
If the Druidic Council approves reimbursement for Marijuana, I want to submit medical expense reports for medicinal blowjobs. You wouldn't believe how therapeutic blowjobs can be. 

#pontifexmaximus
#druidiccouncil
#writofcertiorari
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
6m
I would also like to be reimbursed for the medicinal grade hand-jobs that I've been giving myself. Usually about 10 or so per day, but sometimes more, and I only charge 39 USD per session. and I'm a fucking licensed Hand-Job Therapist!

#pontifexmaximus
#druidiccouncil
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
6m
I would also like to be reimbursed for the medicinal grade hand-jobs that I've been giving myself. Usually about 10 or so per day, but sometimes more, and I only charge 39 USD per session. and I'm a fucking licensed Hand-Job Therapist!

#pontifexmaximus
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

* * *

The main issues that are weighing on my mind right now are: getting into graduate school, paying for graduate school, paying back any student loans that I might accumulate while attending graduate school, completing graduate school without running out of cash and credit, and then finding employment sufficiently remunerative such that any student loans I have to pay back aren't excessively burdensome.

* * *

Even though I might be getting distracted. Or at least I feel like I'm getting distracted. It's possible that I'm getting more done than I think. What is one thing that I would like to get done? Well, complete another Copyright Registration. The issue here isn't time. It's money. I'm already stretched super thin in terms of money, and I really don't have any money to spend on pet projects, but in a way, when I say that, I know that I've spent more on lunches than. You know. Impulse purchases are issues too. you know. and I'm wasting money in one area or another, that should be better used in some other area.

* * *

This is probably a useless thing to point out, but I have a folder for links that I have used in the past, but, don't plan on using anytime soon, they may be specific in some way, like, a specific facebook page. I might not. i obviously don't need to bookmark facebook, but there may be a specific facebook page that i might want to book mark. anyway. i have a specific bookmarks folder for bookmarks that are kind of like that. super specific pages in. anyway. the situation there is that I had folders within my archived bookmark folders. i fixed that issue of having folders within my archived bookmarks folder for bookmarks of pages within websites that i want to bookmark, but the main website doesn't need to be bookmarked. stupid trivial issue.

* * *

Fuck. Let me think for a minute. Incessant distractions. There was something that I was thinking about. Okay. it's about the wash loss rule regarding stock trading. I wouldn't be worrying about this right now, however, I basically did not get. My unemployment insurance claim was not approved, or, disqualified, so I'm basically selling the shares I have in my Robinhood account to cover my current needs, and this also wouldn't be an issue, however, the current market prices of the shares I'm selling are below my cost-basis for the shares that I'm selling.

So I'm selling my fucking shares at a realized loss, and this has the potential to cause me to run afoul of the wash-sale rule in the event that I'm not realizing my capital losses correctly.

You know. There's a fucking correct way to lose money and shit. what a fucking nightmare.

* * *

I'm trying to think about something. Well. It may have been possible that my. that the money I spent on the Meningitis Vaccine for college, would have been paid for by my employer health plan, but I'm not sure.

* * *

What do I need to work on? Okay. I got distracted again. Transcribing notes. working on stuff for my twitter profile. I just can't believe how much time I've been spending on there. There was an Automated Profile, or an Automated Bot Re-Tweeter that caught my attention, and I found it interesting. I ended up experimenting with emojis for a while.

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
44m
I want thoughts as 
complex as your thoughts
feelings as deep 
as your feelings
insecurities as trivial
as your insecurities
hobbies as bougie
as your hobbies
tastes as sophisticated 
as your tastes
and problems as 
first-world as yours

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
53m
I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions you have, and for 

not having the same precepts
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
53m
I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 

not having the same precepts
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
56m
I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 

not having the same precepts that
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
58m
I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 

not having the same feelings that
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious


Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
1h
I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
1h
I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.

#cyberinsecurities
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
1h
I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
1h
A Twitter catfish posts risque photographs and actual perverts
ask to meet up, sad truth: 

I tried that approach on 
Snapchat and it didn't seem 
to achieve anything, nothing!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
1h
A Twitter catfish posts risque photographs and actual perverts ask to meet up, sad truth: 

I tried that approach on 
Snapchat and it didn't seem 
to achieve anything, nothing!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
1h
No two days are alike
and every day brings new 
surprises and uncertainties.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
1h
Residents from the complex are swimming in the pool the weather 
is hot, the water is cool.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
1h
I think that I have a tendency
to say things that I shouldn't,
and once things are digital,

they're never forgotten:
let's hope that no one has been
reading these.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
1h
I'm watching the ceiling fan
spin around and waft hot and
humid air around my room.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
1h
I think that I'm not
really interested in things
other than basics.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
1h
I'm not really a
leftist except for those times
when the ladies are.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
7h
... well, I made it almost as far as Oklahoma City, OK. I don't think I'll make it to Abilene, KS. Let's just say you win, Paul, and you can keep Nancy! As for paper📜scissors ✂️rock 🥌, see attachment below: Rock!

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
11h
... anyway, Paul, I still haven't gotten over her after all these years. If you want to, you can meet me in Kansas, and we'll fight over her, fists only, as in: paper, scissors, rock. 

Dwight D. Eisenhower Presidential Library & Museum, 200 S E 4th St, Abilene, KS 67410
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
11h
... but I guess timing is everything, as a suitor, and as a progenitor. She never said anything to me about having a Paul, ever. I was working as a fry cook, my shirts covered in grease, day after day. Only thing she ever said was, was: "I've never seen such hideous shirts!"
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
12h
...there were other opportunities at the time, in fact, Ferdinand Marcos was offering a one way ticket to the bourgeoisie, fully funded by California Boy Ronald Regan himself! I couldn't do it though: my dick was just too fucking big! So, I went to Stalingrad instead!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
12h
...but um, I didn't know she met someone. Five kids? Lucky guy. Unfortunately for me, I was fighting the Wehrmacht in Stalingrad while Pretty Boy Pablo was flirting with the ladies!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
12h
Is being charged with a DUI the same as being credited with a DUI? I wonder if he'll ultimately be debited with a DUI? Do you have to be credited with a DUI before being Debited with a DUI? I've never had a DUI.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 28
I think that many of the content moderation policies on user generated content platforms are unnecessarily broad and many of those policies can be construed to take down any kind of content whatsoever. There's a point where algorithmic or direct curation dilute authenticity.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 27
I stand with Ukraine!


Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
When I think about the Real Housewives Franchise it make me sick! There are more pressing issues in the world right now! Especially my Twitter diatribe on taxation during the Diodochi Epoch!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
Emperor Seleucus I said tax credits would be granted to any infrastructure spending by Prince Antiochus I, provided he inflate his reported expenses by no more than 9% of actual costs incurred, and to seek assistance from his cousin Pharaoh Ptolemy II concerning other expenses.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
One of my favorite artifacts was a codex of invoices and annotations from Prince Antiochus I to his father Emperor Seleucus I asking for tax credits for his latest infrastructure project, as well as inquiries regarding qualified tax deductions for his public education project.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
When I lived at the Vatican City I amassed a decent collection of artifacts from the Selucid Dynasty; Saddam Hussein sent a diplomatic mission to have my collection repatriated; I insisted I had clear title dating to Mehmet II, and his actions would be construed as expropriation.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
When I think about my time at the Vatican City: I remember having amassed a pretty decent collection of artifacts from the Selucid Dynasty, but Saddam Hussein sent a diplomatic mission to have my entire collection expropriated; I insisted I had clear title dating to Mehmet II.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
There won't be a Real Housewives of the Vatican City because 180,000 USD in annual disposal income wouldn't be sufficient to support a spouse, a humble cleric could buy maybe two books a year, from Sotheby's, on that salary.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
Pope Francis also made a comment about declining birthrates, he said something along the lines of: people who don't start families are self-indulgent, and I thought; he's right, median per capita income in the Vatican City is 180,000 USD, and none of those guys have families.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
Pope Francis also made a comment about declining birthrates. He said something along the lines of: people who don't start families are self-indulgent, and I thought: he's right, median per capita income in the Vatican City is 180,000 USD, and none of those guys have families.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
Pope Francis also made a comment about declining birthrates. He said something along the lines of: people who don't start families are self-indulgent, and I thought: he's right, median per capita income in the Vatican City is like 180,000 USD, and none of those guys have kids.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
Years ago I was at a bar and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian🐊🦖 conspiracy and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians🐙🦑, insectilians🦋🐞, or robotilians🤖🖥️.

#DanishCookieUXorious

* * *







* * *







Objectives

Education
    - UTA: Admissions and Deadlines
    - UTA: Student Loans and Financial Aid
    - UTA: Internships
    - Electives: Languages
            - Arabic
            - Classics
            - Communication Studies
            - Latin
            - Linguistics
            - History
            - Geography
    - Electives: Mathematics
            - Data Science
            - Statistics
            - Insurance
            - Accounting
    - Electives: Programming
            - Information Systems
            - Industrial & Manufacturing Systems
            - Computer Science
            - Communications Technology
            - Business Analytics
    - Electives: Finance Outside of Finance 
            - Urban Design
            - Real Estate
            - Landscape Architecture
            - Interior Design
            - Insurance
            - Architecture
            - Economics
            - City & Regional Planning
    - Equipment: Computer
Employment
    - Internships
    - University Career Resources
    - Relocation Opportunities
Publishing
    - Copyrights: indefinite hiatus
    - Copyrights: innocuous posts
    - Copyrights: Letters from Sanford Street
Domestic & Personal
    - Reduce Clutter
    - Vehicle Registration
    - Credit Cards

...

The other day I was at the gas station. I was at the QuikTrip across the street from my residence, and this lady asked me if I was on-foot. if i was walking, and i made a mention that i have a car, and i'm fully capable of driving. i just enjoy walking. she offered me a bike. she said the bike was perfectly fine. she said the bike worked perfectly fine. and she offered to let me have it. she said she just left it there for anyone who wanted it.

so, i took it and rode it around the empty parking lot behind the gas station. and the bike did work just fine, but when i tried to stop the bike. i realized that the bike's breaks were not functional. the breaks did not work. and i realized that the bike was actually dangerous to ride anywhere other than in an empty parking lot. since the bike didn't have working breaks. it would have been dangerous to ride anywhere other than in the empty parking lot. so i left it in the parking lot.

i thought it would be helpful to simply throw the bike away, since it was dangerous to ride. i thought that. whatever medical bills a person would incur getting into an accident on that bike were much greater than any medical bills a person would incur simply walking to the same location. you know. so. i really thought it would be most prudent to throw the bike away.

i do. really. sometimes feel bad when i throw things away that other people perceive as being useful.

...

I can't take an infinite amount of classes. I mean. I can't take an unlimited number of electives. Mainly because I don't have an infinite amount of money. One of the scholarships that I came across was actually kind of awesome, but, I think there is a preference for students pursuing an undergraduate degree, even though it didn't explicitly say so.

...

Electives: Math Classes / this was changed to mathematics - i might change the programming electives section into something more broad. one thing i want to point out is that. there are three areas. right. communications. linguistics. foreign languages. and they seem similar.

* * *

When I think about certain things I think that. maybe. that was. sort of. to make something. i don't know how to say it. or even if i want to say it.

* * *

When I logged back in to see. to check my Google AdSense account, there were so many things that were different, and, I really couldn't figure out what to do with it. I might put this objective on the back burner for right now: " - Advertising: Google AdSense Compliance " I don't want to get delisted. or black listed. or totally removed from AdSense monetization. I really have only ever made about 1 dollar annually from hosting Google AdSense ads, I really haven't made very much money doing it.

* * *

I feel like I have too much fucking stuff. Like too much stuff. too many things that I don't really need.

* * *

There's currently a generalized bias against obtaining a university education, or, attending graduate school, and there's kind of a preference for trade school training or. there's kind of a bias. i feel. currently. in favor of attending a trade school or vocational school. for some reason i wasn't able to make much progress when i was trying to learn coding. i don't know why i had so much trouble with it.

* * *

I have this notice to renew my vehicle registration with Texas. There are a number of things that I need to take care of. I went to the library, but I didn't really get a whole lot done. I was in the middle of something, and there seemed to be a parade somewhere downtown. I'm not going to say that I was distracted as a result, and I'm not going to say that I couldn't concentrate as a result, but, for some reason I left the library and went back home.

There are times when I really can't concentrate, and, I'm not able to get very much work done.

...

 Figure Out  /  those things
that are hard to understand
for other people
but for you are a breeze to understand.

...

I want to cut down on the amount of stuff that I have. I don't like throwing things away because I feel that I might be perceived as wasteful if I do so, and this is considering that I really don't have very many contacts. I don't really know anyone, and I really haven't made very many friends since I moved here.

Socializing can be a full time job in itself, and, I'm not really sure it has a better payoff than simply logging more time at work, or, spending more time learning new things and skills.

* * *

I took a shower, and shaved my head and face. I feel funny when I haven't shaved in a while, I feel dirty, and I feel that I look dirty too, but there was this point during my shaving where I only had my moustache unshaved, and for a minute I thought that I actually look kind of nice with facial hair. I didn't want to over think the issue, so I shaved it off.

...

New Item: I want to get a new computer. a laptop, but. i want to get a new laptop computer, or at the very least, i want to look into it. i know that my current laptop is more or less just fine, and it's not really necessary for me to buy a new one. i just want to look into it.

...

some of the places
there aren't real
and some of those
profile are fake and
bogus to give an impression
that things are more impressive
than they really are.

I'm looking at the course catalog at UTA. and I'm coming across the word "Modality" and I remember this from UMKC. I feel so fucking bad. that. I didn't go to graduate school sooner. and. I'm going to feel really bad if this ends up being just another time where. just another time where I don't end up attending for one reason or another.

I found the course catalog. There is a 
lot of clutter. everywhere.
quite a bit of it is actually bogus.

...

Notes: Deep fake or deepfake is a. manipulation of moving pictures, or digital videos using artificial intelligence.

I remember seeing this video of a scene from the Shining (1980) where, I think the video was a deepfake, it was a scene from the Shining performed by Jack Nicholson, but I think that. I think that it was Jim Carey. Jim Carey's face was deepfaked over Jack Nicholson's face.

I wanted to say that Jim Carey's face was superimposed over Jack Nicholson's face, but. that wouldn't be really accurate. anyway. it's called a deepfake, and, it was kind of interesting to learn about that.

It's definitely kind of scary as well. 

...

So for the unemployment disqualification, I think that I'll just not appeal in this case. The unpaid wages issue is something that I'll deal with, but, I mean it's something I'll look out for, but, I'm really not counting on getting anything out of that.

When it comes to accepting work from someone, I'd say this: you can't really count on a complete stranger paying you for your work, what happened in my case is I worked for someone I didn't really know, and the business didn't seem to be a really formalized business, and when I asked for my paycheck, the person simply didn't pay me.

In a lot of cases you're really on your own when it comes to getting paid for work that you do. I've never had any trouble with larger businesses, but I know that, going forward, I just have to be skeptical about job offers, or offers of employment from people I meet at a restaurant or bar. I won't do that again.

Texas Workforce Commission
    - (x) Decide to Appeal or Not
    - (x) Unpaid Wages

...

Greetings Office of the Registrar:

I'm applying to the University of Texas at Arlington, and transcripts have been requested from UNLV, which I was admitted to, but neve attended. UNLV doesn't seem to use a transcript intermediary like Parchment or the National Student Clearing House, so I'm requesting that whatever student file or transcripts I have with UNLV be sent to UTA at this email address: grad.recruit@uta.edu.

Sincerely,

Kenneth Larot Yamat
816-724-5293
kenneth.larot.yamat@gmail.com / info@chestnutandhazel.com

...

I don't think that I need to get transcripts from UNLV and have them sent to UTA, the reason being is that I was admitted to UNLV, but I never attended, I put in a transcript request anyway. It's on my outstanding items for UTA, but, my application is noted as being complete.

...

The library is more or less closed right now. I'll have to wait until tomorrow to finish some of the things that I'm working on.

...

I want to go grocery shopping, but I'm not sure I really need anything, or at least, I'm not sure that I'm at a critically low level with anything I need. and thinking about it was not helpful.

...

You make things better than they
were before I needed to ask if
you had more money for me
Kenneth Larot Yamat
I really need it at this point.
@KennethLYamat

we could have fallen into a pit.
some of the things that happened 2m ago were amazing.
Mao Zedong was going to lead the Wanton Assault team into a verloren hoop charge at the Wehrmacht's left flank, then rear guard, but he got bogged down fighting the Imperial Sushi Masters and the Prince of the Peking Duck Dynasty: Chiang Kai-shek!

#VladimirPutin
#Stalingrad
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

i wasn't happy
and things did not get
better
and they did get worse.
 
i don't think that it's fair that I suffer more17m than anyone else.
I fought for the Allies at Stalingrad as part of the Fried Rice Auxiliaries of the Red Army, Ho Chi Minh and Emiliano Zapata were my Comrades in Arms, but the Soviets had logistical problems then, as now, and we were given only one rifle for the three of us.

i think other people need to suffer #vladimirputin
Kenneth Larot Yamat just as much as i do.
@KennethLYamat or even more than i do.
but it's not the same without you
and things are getting 22h worse over there.
If Vladimir Putin thinks he's going to win: he's got another thing coming!

some of the things of how we all stay together #vladimirputin!
some of the things of how we all play games with one another.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
23h
Do you approve of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor?

Yes   1%
No    0%
1 votes

In fact, I want to clerk for Justice Sotomayor, and when I'm on the U.S. Supreme Court, I'll opine conservative views with more bravado than Scalia AND take Justice Sotomayor to the Ballet!

Cracks in the concrete of the 
patio of the balcony. I'm always 
out there, yet hardly notice.

#tercet
#haiku

An opossum walks around
the courtyard as though it
were a cat looking for tuna.

#tercet
#haiku

Cracks in the concrete of the 
patio of the balcony. I'm always 
out there, yet hardly notice.

#tercet
#haiku

An opossum walks around
the courtyard as though it
were a cat looking for tuna.

#tercet
#haiku

* * *

The air is cool and dry
the night is almost at it's end
tomorrow is a new day

#haiku
#tercet

Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't 
even be bothered by being 
denied communion in accordance 
with canon law 915. I was 
actually Excommunicated from 
the Holy See by being baptized 
as a cultist of Christianity & 
Company Incorporated, PLC 
Société anonyme. so. You know. 
It's like that.

#haiku
#tercet

...

ÞȲ so many things happened that were
ƿȲ totally tragic and were super sad.
DY i don't have a positive opinion.
things that were set up and made to
Ʉ  Ѵ be even worse than what they were
and how they all came to pass.
things that cannot be forgiven. Ɏ 

Ж

Ѯ so many people perished that day.

Cracks in the concrete of the 
patio of the balcony. I'm always 
out there, yet hardly notice.

#tercet
#haiku


Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that these seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the dark web / illicit internet posted by Vladimir Nikita Stalin:

evil666doers666unite666. onion / ru / lat666lon666bounty /666coins / luv666vladimir666putin666
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that these seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the dark web / illicit internet posted by Vladimir Nikita Stalin:

evil666doers666unite!666. onion / lat122lon666bounty .666coins / luv666vladimir666putin666
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h

* * *

[Chestnut + Hazel] New message received.
Trash

Blogger Contact Form <no-reply@blogger.com>
Wed, May 4, 2:08 AM
to me, submissions

This message has been deleted. Restore message
Hi,

Starting your own business can be tremendously rewarding, but as any 
entrepreneur knows, you must overcome a lot of fear and uncertainty in 
order to be successful.

Is it possible for me to submit an article on your website that gives 
advice to prospective entrepreneurs on how to overcome the fear of 
beginning a new business?

Please let me know if you like this topic for your website, and I'll get 
started writing.

Thank you very much!
Cameron Ward
cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com

Regards,
Cameron Ward | cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com

Note: This email was sent via the Contact Form gadget on 
http://www.chestnutandhazel.com

Kenneth Larot Yamat <kenneth.larot.yamat@gmail.com>
Wed, May 4, 8:30 AM
to Cameron

This message has been deleted. Restore message
Greetings Cameron Ward:

I'm interested in listening to what you have to say, however, this
website is just a place where I put my personal notes.

Sincerely,

Kenneth Larot Yamat
info@chestnutandhazel.com

On Wed, May 4, 2022 at 2:08 AM Blogger Contact Form
<no-reply@blogger.com> wrote:
>
> Hi,
>
> Starting your own business can be tremendously rewarding, but as any
> entrepreneur knows, you must overcome a lot of fear and uncertainty in
> order to be successful.
>
> Is it possible for me to submit an article on your website that gives
> advice to prospective entrepreneurs on how to overcome the fear of
> beginning a new business?
>
> Please let me know if you like this topic for your website, and I'll get
> started writing.
>
> Thank you very much!
> Cameron Ward
> cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com
>
> Regards,
> Cameron Ward | cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com
>
> Note: This email was sent via the Contact Form gadget on
> http://www.chestnutandhazel.com

Kenneth Larot Yamat <info@chestnutandhazel.com>
Tue, May 10, 4:12 PM
to Cameron

This message has been deleted. Restore message
Greetings Cameron Ward:

My apologies for previously replying from my personal email. I wanted
to ask what email system you use for your website? and what web
hosting service do you use? What domain registration service do you
use?

Sincerely,

Kenneth Larot Yamat

On Wed, May 4, 2022 at 2:08 AM Blogger Contact Form
<no-reply@blogger.com> wrote:
>
> Hi,
>
> Starting your own business can be tremendously rewarding, but as any
> entrepreneur knows, you must overcome a lot of fear and uncertainty in
> order to be successful.
>
> Is it possible for me to submit an article on your website that gives
> advice to prospective entrepreneurs on how to overcome the fear of
> beginning a new business?
>
> Please let me know if you like this topic for your website, and I'll get
> started writing.
>
> Thank you very much!
> Cameron Ward
> cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com
>
> Regards,
> Cameron Ward | cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com
>
> Note: This email was sent via the Contact Form gadget on
> http://www.chestnutandhazel.com

Mail Delivery Subsystem
Tue, May 10, 4:12 PM
to me

This message has been deleted. Restore message
Error Icon
Message not delivered
You're sending this from a different address or alias using the 'Send mail as' feature. The settings for your 'Send mail as' account are misconfigured or out of date. Check those settings and try resending.
LEARN MORE
The response from the remote server was:
535 5.7.8 Username and Password not accepted. Learn more at https://support.google.com/mail/?p=BadCredentials u18-20020ac858d2000000b002f39b99f696sm30009qta.48 - gsmtp

so many people
came to be more than
just silly and stupid.
and there were many people
out there.

---------- Forwarded message ----------
From: Kenneth Larot Yamat <info@chestnutandhazel.com>
To: Cameron Ward <cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com>
Cc: 
Bcc: 
Date: Tue, 10 May 2022 16:12:39 -0500
Subject: Re: [Chestnut + Hazel] New message received.
Greetings Cameron Ward:

My apologies for previously replying from my personal email. I wanted
to ask what email system you use for your website? and what web
hosting service do you use? What domain registration service do you
use?

Sincerely,

Kenneth Larot Yamat

On Wed, May 4, 2022 at 2:08 AM Blogger Contact Form
<no-reply@blogger.com> wrote:
>
> Hi,
>
> Starting your own business can be tremendously rewarding, but as any
> entrepreneur knows, you must overcome a lot of fear and uncertainty in
> order to be successful.
>
> Is it possible for me to submit an article on your website that gives
> advice to prospective entrepreneurs on how to overcome the fear of
> beginning a new business?
>
> Please let me know if you like this topic for your website, and I'll get
> started writing.
>
> Thank you very much!
> Cameron Ward
> cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com
>
> Regards,
> Cameron Ward | cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com
>
> Note: This email was sent via the Contact Form gadget on
> http://www.chestnutandhazel.com

Kenneth Larot Yamat <info@chestnutandhazel.com>
Tue, May 10, 4:56 PM
to Cameron

This message has been deleted. Restore message

Greetings Cameron Ward:

My apologies for previously replying from my personal email. I wanted
to ask what email system you use for your website? and what web
hosting service do you use? What domain registration service do you
use?

Sincerely,

Kenneth Larot Yamat

On Wed, May 4, 2022 at 2:08 AM Blogger Contact Form
<no-reply@blogger.com> wrote:
>
> Hi,
>
> Starting your own business can be tremendously rewarding, but as any
> entrepreneur knows, you must overcome a lot of fear and uncertainty in
> order to be successful.
>
> Is it possible for me to submit an article on your website that gives
> advice to prospective entrepreneurs on how to overcome the fear of
> beginning a new business?
>
> Please let me know if you like this topic for your website, and I'll get
> started writing.
>
> Thank you very much!
> Cameron Ward
> cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com
>
> Regards,
> Cameron Ward | cameron.ward@bizwealthbuilder.com
>
> Note: This email was sent via the Contact Form gadget on
> http://www.chestnutandhazel.com

...

there were many people out there
who took to the streets and
found new things to be angry about.

most of the sequences went on for a minimum of 13m
If the Druidic Council approves reimbursement for Marijuana, I want to submit medical expense reports for medicinal blowjobs. You wouldn't believe how therapeutic blowjobs can be. 

most of it was probably bogus and #pontifexmaximus
you know how most things really go and how they are
stupid and silly. ·

...



Objectives

Education
    - UTA: Admissions and Deadlines
    - UTA: Student Loans and Financial Aid
    - UTA: Internships
    - Electives: Languages
    - Electives: Math Classes
    - Electives: Programming
    - Electives: Finance outside of finance 
Employment
    - Internships
    - University Career Resources
    - Relocation Opportunities
Texas Workforce Commission
    - Decide to Appeal or Not
    - Unpaid Wages
Publishing
    - Copyrights: indefinite hiatus and innocuous posts
    - Copyrights: Letters from Sanford Street

* * *

I was able to lookup a. I just recently looked up myself in the copyright office, and I saw that my other series of Tweets was registered. I mean, the registration of those copyrights is complete. I never received a paper conformation of the registration, and. Maybe it just hasn't arrived yet. I tried to upload a screenshot of the new registered copyright, but it didn't upload successfully to anywhere, other at Chestnut + Hazel. I'll leave it alone for now. My internet connection is just enough for text based stuff for right now.

* * *

I think that many of the content moderation policies on user generated content platforms are unnecessarily broad and many of those policies can be construed to take down any kind of content whatsoever. There's a point where algorithmic or direct curation dilute authenticity.

Okay, so here's a serious solution to the mass casualty incidents that happen incessantly in the United States: let's round up all the serial killers and mass murderers and other violent sociopaths, and have them fight Vladimir Putin. They did it in StarCraft.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

* * *





* * *





* * *
·
May 26
One of the issues I have is that I grew up in San Jose, California during the Information Age, and as a result, I have an inability to comprehend what a violent crime is. I grew up thinking the Incident at Littleton, Colorado was some kind of artifact of cinematography.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
One of the issues I have is that I grew up in San Jose, California during the Information Age, and as a result, I have an inability to comprehend what a violent crime is. I grew up thinking the Incident at Littleton, Colorado was some kind of Cinematic Production.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
... and that's how the:

Oracle of Prometheus at Antioch in honor of Prince Antiochus I, Summa Magnificarum 

was established.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
... and that's how the:

Oracle of Prometheus at Antioch in honor of Prince Antiochus I, Summa Magnificarum was established.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
... Prince Antiochus I consulted the Oracle of Apollo at Delphi, the Oracle of Tiresias at Thebes, and the Oracle of Artemis at Halicarnassus to determine if it would be suitable and compliant to establish an:

ORACLE! OF! PROMETHEUS! 
AT! ANTIOCH!

DUN! DUN! DUN!
THEY SAID YES
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
... Prince Antiochus I consulted the Oracle at of Apollo at Delphi, the Oracle of Tiresias at Thebes, and the Oracle of Artemis at Halicarnassus to determine if it would be suitable, and compliant to establish an:

ORACLE! OF! PROMETHEUS! 
AT! ANTIOCH!

DUN! DUN! DUN!
THEYsaidYES
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
... but the clever young prince: Prince Antiochus I, no less! would not be had! What Prince Antiochus I had found after extensive scrutinization was a subclause designating ecclesiastical constructions as infrastructure, and  so Prince Antiochus I developed a plot of his own!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
... what Emperor Seleucus I and Pharaoh Ptolemy II had in mind was to undercut Prince Antiochus I by composing a warrant of attainder expressing a prohibition on subsidies for any academic edifices north of the Nile, or west of the Euphrates, stopping any Academy of Antioch.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
... you see, there was something conspiratorial afoot between Emperor Seleucus I and Pharaoh Ptolemy II. Seleucus intended to create a codex collection at Seleucia, and Ptolemy: a scriptorium magnus at Alexandria, neither had any intention of being eclipsed by Prince Antiochus I.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
... anyway, no one said that eating the fruit from the Tree of Knowledge would bring you anywhere nice, now did it? So, after Prince Antiochus I petitioned Pharaoh Ptolemy II for funds to subsidize the Academy of Antioch, Pharaoh Ptolemy II declined, citing a project of his own.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
... anyway, no one said that eating the fruit from the Tree of Knowledge would bring you anywhere nice, now did it? So, after Prince Antiochus I petitioned Pharaoh Ptolemy II for funds to subsidize the Academy of Antioch, Pharaoh Ptolemy declined citing a project of his own.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
...and if anyone brings up the Real Housewives again, or anything else for that matter, while I'm discussing this seminal revelation of my findings of the Successor States, I will totally block you!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
When I think about the Real Housewives Franchise it make me sick! There are more pressing issues in the world right now! Especially my Twitter diatribe on taxation during the Diodochi Epoch!

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
Emperor Seleucus I said tax credits would be granted to any infrastructure spending by Prince Antiochus I, provided he inflate his reported expenses by no more than 9% of actual costs incurred, and to seek assistance from his cousin Pharaoh Ptolemy II concerning other expenses.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
One of my favorite artifacts was a codex of invoices and annotations from Prince Antiochus I to his father Emperor Seleucus I asking for tax credits for his latest infrastructure project, as well as inquiries regarding qualified tax deductions for his public education project.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
When I lived at the Vatican City I amassed a decent collection of artifacts from the Selucid Dynasty; Saddam Hussein sent a diplomatic mission to have my collection repatriated; I insisted I had clear title dating to Mehmet II, and his actions would be construed as expropriation.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
When I think about my time at the Vatican City: I remember having amassed a pretty decent collection of artifacts from the Selucid Dynasty, but Saddam Hussein sent a diplomatic mission to have my entire collection expropriated; I insisted I had clear title dating to Mehmet II.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
There won't be a Real Housewives of the Vatican City because 180,000 USD in annual disposal income wouldn't be sufficient to support a spouse, a humble cleric could buy maybe two books a year, from Sotheby's, on that salary.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
Pope Francis also made a comment about declining birthrates, he said something along the lines of: people who don't start families are self-indulgent, and I thought; he's right, median per capita income in the Vatican City is 180,000 USD, and none of those guys have families.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
Pope Francis also made a comment about declining birthrates. He said something along the lines of: people who don't start families are self-indulgent, and I thought: he's right, median per capita income in the Vatican City is 180,000 USD, and none of those guys have families.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
Pope Francis also made a comment about declining birthrates. He said something along the lines of: people who don't start families are self-indulgent, and I thought: he's right, median per capita income in the Vatican City is like 180,000 USD, and none of those guys have kids.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
Years ago I was at a bar and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian🐊🦖 conspiracy and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians🐙🦑, insectilians🦋🐞, or robotilians🤖🖥️.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
Thumbnail Choices:

  Artists & Scientists: 
     Samuel Finley Breese Morse
  Bureaucrats & Legislators: 
     Alexander Hamilton
  Entrepreneurs & Magnates: 
     Éleuthère Irénée du Pont de Nemours
  Strategists & Tacticians: 
     John Charles Frémont

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 24
Years ago I was at a bar and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian🐊 conspiracy and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians🐙🦑, insectilians🦋, or robotilians🤖.

#DanishCookieUXorious

* * *




Objectives

Education
    - UTA: Admissions and Deadlines
    - UTA: Student Loans and Financial Aid
    - UTA: Internships
    - Electives: Languages
    - Electives: Math Classes
    - Electives: Programming
    - Electives: Finance outside of finance 
Employment
    - Internships
    - University Career Resources
    - Relocation Opportunities
Texas Workforce Commission
    - Decide to Appeal or Not
    - Unpaid Wages
Publishing
    - Copyrights: indefinite hiatus and innocuous posts
    - Copyrights: Letters from Sanford Street

* * *





* * *

There was something else that bothered me. I don't remember what it was. Something similar to the incident at the coffee shop. I want to think about what it was. I just don't remember. I remember thinking about it just a few minutes ago, and wanting to think about it, and wanting to write about it.

* * *

Keep Tabs on / Keep Tabs on / Current Goals

* * *

what was one thing i had issues with the other day. i felt like i was being subject to passive aggressive behavior the other day, and, i really don't know how to handle this sort of thing when it happens, and it really has been happening more and more when interacting with people who work in service roles, but i. honestly. i see it more and more almost everywhere.

the issue was that, i ordered a coffee, right, and it wasn't anything special, basically, i just wanted a regular cup of coffee, he insisted that it be done as a pour over, when that was clearly unnecessary, then he said that the pour over filters had broke 3 times in a row, on 3 separate occasions, and had to be completely redone every single time.

I eventually just said that i'm sure whatever coffee is currently in the cup will suit me just fine, and that he could consider the task completed, then, he tops off the coffee with some other kind of coffee. i pray to god that the people who treat me this way, are on the receiving end of the same behavior. and i'm going to go ahead and pray, that i'm able to catch myself if i find myself being passive-aggressive in my own conduct.

i'm sure that sometimes passive-aggressive behavior is all that people have sometimes, but, i really think that when people do it to me, it's uncalled for, it's completely un-instigated. they do it to me when i haven't done anything to them. i was just ordering a cup of fucking coffee. sick of this shit. people picking on me.

* * *

You know, even though my original goal list was in paragraph format, putting it into bullet point format really isn't going to make it any shorter. it won't. I think whether a list is in paragraph or bullet point format, both lists will be equally long.

* * *

    - Keep Tabs on Student Loans and Financial Aid

* * *

    - Keep Tabs on Student Loans and Financial Aid

* * *

I think that one issue I had. with. I think that one of the issues I had with. the getting marked issue. was that. maybe we're all in that stage. maybe things are different, and. even. things aren't really live and let live any more. everything everyone does irritates everyone else. and we all just sort of declare war with each other.

* * *

Yeah, that was dumb, totally not even Reddit Porn. Stupid. Well. Little bit irritated. Not about the post not being real Reddit Porn. or anything, just about miscellaneous other things.

* * *

In many ways also. I think that there is a reason that many people stick to certain platforms and stay away from others. Some of these platforms are really. I don't know. Kind of a garbage.

* * *

I think that many of the content moderation policies on user generated content platforms are unnecessarily broad and many of those policies can be construed to take down any kind of content whatsoever: there's a point where algorithmic curation or direct curation begin to dilute authenticity.

* * *

I think that many of the content moderation policies on user generated content platforms are unnecessarily broad and many of those policies can be construed to take down any kind of content whatsoever. There's a point where algorithmic or direct curation dilute authenticity.

* * *

I think that many of the content moderation policies on user generated content platforms are unnecessarily broad and many of those policies can be construed to take down any kind of content whatsoever.

* * *

I'm going to suggest that many of the content moderation policies on nearly every user generated content platform is unnecessarily broad. Many of them can be construed to take down any kind of content whatsoever.

* * *






Current Goals

Education
    - Keep Tabs on Admissions and Deadlines
    - Keep Tabs on Student Loans and Financial Aid
    - Internships
    - Languages
    - Math Classes
    - Programming
    - Finance outside of finance 
Employment
    - Internships
    - University Career Resources
    - Relocation Opportunities
Texas Workforce Commission
    - Decide to Appeal or Not
    - Keep Tabs on Unpaid Wages
Publishing
    - Copyrights: indefinite hiatus and innocuous posts
    - Copyrights: Letters from Sanford Street
    - (x) Tweets to Chestnut + Hazel

* * *

There seems to be pornography, on Twitter. Nothing to freak out about of course. I wonder why this page was marked as adult content? it was probably because someone wanted this to be caught by company or content filters, but there is really more or less no pornography here.

I'm going to suggest that many of the content regulations on any content platform are really unnecessarily broad. Many of them can be construed to take down any kind of content whatsoever.

* * *

I think that one of the things to remember is. don't work somewhere for the wrong reasons. you know. well. i wonder if she secretly was mad at me for the backpack incident. so what was the backpack incident, or the incident of the backpack. or maybe the backpack controversy. well, she gave us backpacks, and, i left it there. i didn't take it with me, and it was a really nice back pack. but. i left it there and didn't take it with me.

* * *

Okay, so here's a serious solution to the mass casualty incidents that happen incessantly in the United States: let's round up all the serial killers and mass murderers and other violent sociopaths, and have them fight Vladimir Putin. They did it in StarCraft.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
One of the issues I have is that I grew up in San Jose, California during the Information Age, and as a result, I have an inability to comprehend what a violent crime is. I grew up thinking the Incident at Littleton, Colorado was some kind of artifact of cinematography.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
One of the issues I have is that I grew up in San Jose, California during the Information Age, and as a result, I have an inability to comprehend what a violent crime is. I grew up thinking the Incident at Littleton, Colorado was some kind of Cinematic Production.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
... and that's how the:

Oracle of Prometheus at Antioch in honor of Prince Antiochus I, Summa Magnificarum 

was established.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
... and that's how the:

Oracle of Prometheus at Antioch in honor of Prince Antiochus I, Summa Magnificarum was established.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
... Prince Antiochus I consulted the Oracle of Apollo at Delphi, the Oracle of Tiresias at Thebes, and the Oracle of Artemis at Halicarnassus to determine if it would be suitable and compliant to establish an:

ORACLE! OF! PROMETHEUS! 
AT! ANTIOCH!

DUN! DUN! DUN!
THEY SAID YES
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
... Prince Antiochus I consulted the Oracle at of Apollo at Delphi, the Oracle of Tiresias at Thebes, and the Oracle of Artemis at Halicarnassus to determine if it would be suitable, and compliant to establish an:

ORACLE! OF! PROMETHEUS! 
AT! ANTIOCH!

DUN! DUN! DUN!
THEYsaidYES
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
... but the clever young prince: Prince Antiochus I, no less! would not be had! What Prince Antiochus I had found after extensive scrutinization was a subclause designating ecclesiastical constructions as infrastructure, and  so Prince Antiochus I developed a plot of his own!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
... what Emperor Seleucus I and Pharaoh Ptolemy II had in mind was to undercut Prince Antiochus I by composing a warrant of attainder expressing a prohibition on subsidies for any academic edifices north of the Nile, or west of the Euphrates, stopping any Academy of Antioch.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
... you see, there was something conspiratorial afoot between Emperor Seleucus I and Pharaoh Ptolemy II. Seleucus intended to create a codex collection at Seleucia, and Ptolemy: a scriptorium magnus at Alexandria, neither had any intention of being eclipsed by Prince Antiochus I.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
... anyway, no one said that eating the fruit from the Tree of Knowledge would bring you anywhere nice, now did it? So, after Prince Antiochus I petitioned Pharaoh Ptolemy II for funds to subsidize the Academy of Antioch, Pharaoh Ptolemy II declined, citing a project of his own.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
... anyway, no one said that eating the fruit from the Tree of Knowledge would bring you anywhere nice, now did it? So, after Prince Antiochus I petitioned Pharaoh Ptolemy II for funds to subsidize the Academy of Antioch, Pharaoh Ptolemy declined citing a project of his own.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
...and if anyone brings up the Real Housewives again, or anything else for that matter, while I'm discussing this seminal revelation of my findings of the Successor States, I will totally block you!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 26
When I think about the Real Housewives Franchise it make me sick! There are more pressing issues in the world right now! Especially my Twitter diatribe on taxation during the Diodochi Epoch!

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
Emperor Seleucus I said tax credits would be granted to any infrastructure spending by Prince Antiochus I, provided he inflate his reported expenses by no more than 9% of actual costs incurred, and to seek assistance from his cousin Pharaoh Ptolemy II concerning other expenses.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
One of my favorite artifacts was a codex of invoices and annotations from Prince Antiochus I to his father Emperor Seleucus I asking for tax credits for his latest infrastructure project, as well as inquiries regarding qualified tax deductions for his public education project.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
When I lived at the Vatican City I amassed a decent collection of artifacts from the Selucid Dynasty; Saddam Hussein sent a diplomatic mission to have my collection repatriated; I insisted I had clear title dating to Mehmet II, and his actions would be construed as expropriation.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
When I think about my time at the Vatican City: I remember having amassed a pretty decent collection of artifacts from the Selucid Dynasty, but Saddam Hussein sent a diplomatic mission to have my entire collection expropriated; I insisted I had clear title dating to Mehmet II.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
There won't be a Real Housewives of the Vatican City because 180,000 USD in annual disposal income wouldn't be sufficient to support a spouse, a humble cleric could buy maybe two books a year, from Sotheby's, on that salary.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
Pope Francis also made a comment about declining birthrates, he said something along the lines of: people who don't start families are self-indulgent, and I thought; he's right, median per capita income in the Vatican City is 180,000 USD, and none of those guys have families.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
Pope Francis also made a comment about declining birthrates. He said something along the lines of: people who don't start families are self-indulgent, and I thought: he's right, median per capita income in the Vatican City is 180,000 USD, and none of those guys have families.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
Pope Francis also made a comment about declining birthrates. He said something along the lines of: people who don't start families are self-indulgent, and I thought: he's right, median per capita income in the Vatican City is like 180,000 USD, and none of those guys have kids.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
Years ago I was at a bar and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian🐊🦖 conspiracy and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians🐙🦑, insectilians🦋🐞, or robotilians🤖🖥️.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 25
Thumbnail Choices:

  Artists & Scientists: 
     Samuel Finley Breese Morse
  Bureaucrats & Legislators: 
     Alexander Hamilton
  Entrepreneurs & Magnates: 
     Éleuthère Irénée du Pont de Nemours
  Strategists & Tacticians: 
     John Charles Frémont

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 24
Years ago I was at a bar and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian🐊 conspiracy and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians🐙🦑, insectilians🦋, or robotilians🤖.

#DanishCookieUXorious

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that these seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the dark web / illicit internet posted by Vladimir Nikita Stalin:

evil666doers666unite666. onion / ru / lat666lon666bounty /666coins / luv666vladimir666putin666
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that these seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the dark web / illicit internet posted by Vladimir Nikita Stalin:

evil666doers666unite!666. onion / lat122lon666bounty .666coins / luv666vladimir666putin666
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h

* * *

I think that one of the things to remember is. don't work somewhere for the wrong reasons. you know. well. i wonder if she secretly was mad at me for the backpack incident.

* * *

🤖What powerful but 
unrecorded race👽
🐨Once dwelt in that 
annihilated place🗿

* * *

I think that it's dealt with. Please don't drag me into any more issues. please. Now. What the hell do I need to do. I don't know why so many life distractions are thrown at me. I really don't every fucking day and every fucking hour over every fucking little thing in the universe. this is really a nightmare.

* * *

Anyway, on of the ways that I considered getting rid of the Viator INC Supplier account, was to create another email, and use that new email to unconnected the old account, and then get rid of it that way, but.

There is a mail log-in email, so I figured I would just use a throwaway email to create a new main log in email, and then jettison the account after removing the log-in credentials for prospectus.media.group@gmail.com.

The issue with this idea. is that my Viator, INC supplier account had my financial institution information connected as well, and there was no way of deleting my financial institution information from the account.

So I was stuck with making an official request from the supplier support agent through the chat application.

* * *

When I think about why I will never work on a contract or temporary basis again, part of it is due to what I'll say was this kind of traumatic experience with Viator, INC. I won't ever work for a temporary placement agency again. Nightmare. Never. I was harmed, emotionally and psychologically from that employment experience with Viator, INC, and I really just want to let it go, but every time I get a SPAM email from that company. you know. I start having serious. like. issues. anyway. let's hope tomorrow is a better day.

* * *

I'm sure that there is a valid reason for an account to be difficult to delete, but, I don't know. I should have been able to delete it sooner. I had no intention of starting a tour company or anything, so, like, why was it so difficult to delete? anyway. I guess that's over. I hope.

* * *

I didn't go to bunriths funeral. not because i didn't care to go or because i thought that i
had more important things to do. but. the issue was that i didn't want to go back
to the bay area. i was fucking homeless my last few months there, and even though
i don't feel like my life was totally bad during those months of homelessness. i just
harbored a hell of a lot of resentment for the way that things went.

* * *

notes and reflections

* * *

Okay, so I think that I was able to successfully delete the Viator, INC Supplier Account. That really took a long time. I think. It just doesn't have an option to delete it. Nowhere in the platform is a way to press a button and delete the account. So. I want to say I had it for about 4 or 5 years, and just left it fallow, or unused.

* * *

Viator, INC notes.

Still trying to delete this account.

I would like to delete this account completely, but there doesn't seem to be an option for doing that. There doesn't seem to be a mechanism for doing that, how do I delete this account.

Virtual Help Assistant
Thank you. Connecting you to an agent now.
8:10 PM
Irene Katherine
Hi, I'm Irene Katherine. Please give me a moment to read your message so that I can help.
8:11 PM
Glad to hear from you today! Am I chatting with Gordo?
8:12 PM
So it's just Kenneth Larot Yamat
8:12 PM
here is the issue
8:12 PM
I have no idea how to delete this account
8:13 PM
deactivation and deletion are two different things.
8:13 PM
i know that the account is deactivated.
8:13 PM
i need the account deleted.
8:13 PM

Irene Katherine
Hi, I'm Irene Katherine. Please give me a moment to read your message so that I can help.
8:11 PM
Glad to hear from you today! Am I chatting with Gordo?
8:12 PM
So it's just Kenneth Larot Yamat
8:12 PM
here is the issue
8:12 PM
I have no idea how to delete this account
8:13 PM
deactivation and deletion are two different things.
8:13 PM
i know that the account is deactivated.
8:13 PM
i need the account deleted.
8:13 PM
Irene Katherine
Thank you for the information and we would love to assist you deactivate the account.
8:13 PM
What I'm trying to state is that I would like the account completely deleted, rather than merely deactivated.
8:14 PM
Irene Katherine
May I ask the reason for activation please?
8:14 PM
I would like my information and login credentials scrubbed.
8:14 PM

8:14 PM

i need the account deleted.
8:13 PM
Irene Katherine
Thank you for the information and we would love to assist you deactivate the account.
8:13 PM
What I'm trying to state is that I would like the account completely deleted, rather than merely deactivated.
8:14 PM
Irene Katherine
May I ask the reason for activation please?
8:14 PM
I would like my information and login credentials scrubbed.
8:14 PM
I guess what I'm trying to say is, on most other platforms, it's somehow possible to delete the account, meaning that the email no longer leads to a valid log in.
8:15 PM
i honestly don't know how to express this correctly.
8:15 PM
normally
8:15 PM
an account is something I can delete.
8:16 PM
but for some reason. there doesn't seem to be a way to delete this account.
8:16 PM

Irene Katherine
For account deactivation, it is processed internally.
8:16 PM
Once we have it deactivated, you can no longer log in on your Viator account and your listing page will be deleted permanently on our platform.
8:17 PM
Okay, I'll state this again, I would like the account completely deleted.
8:17 PM
You realize that I'm corresponding with you right now?
8:18 PM
which implies that I have an account.
8:18 PM

Irene Katherine
For account deactivation, it is processed internally.
8:16 PM
Once we have it deactivated, you can no longer log in on your Viator account and your listing page will be deleted permanently on our platform.
8:17 PM
Okay, I'll state this again, I would like the account completely deleted.
8:17 PM
You realize that I'm corresponding with you right now?
8:18 PM
which implies that I have an account.
8:18 PM

Once we have it deactivated, you can no longer log in on your Viator account and your listing page will be deleted permanently on our platform.
8:17 PM
Okay, I'll state this again, I would like the account completely deleted.
8:17 PM
You realize that I'm corresponding with you right now?
8:18 PM
which implies that I have an account.
8:18 PM
Irene Katherine
Yes, I can see here your account Lead Dump.
8:18 PM
Look Viator, INC
8:18 PM
I'm asking that this account be deleted.
8:18 PM

Once we have it deactivated, you can no longer log in on your Viator account and your listing page will be deleted permanently on our platform.
8:17 PM
Okay, I'll state this again, I would like the account completely deleted.
8:17 PM
You realize that I'm corresponding with you right now?
8:18 PM
which implies that I have an account.
8:18 PM
Irene Katherine
Yes, I can see here your account Lead Dump.
8:18 PM
Look Viator, INC
8:18 PM
I'm asking that this account be deleted.
8:18 PM


Irene Katherine
Yes, I can see here your account Lead Dump.
8:18 PM
Look Viator, INC
8:18 PM
I'm asking that this account be deleted.
8:18 PM
I'm writing and corresponding to you from within the Viator Supplier Platform. I need access to the Viator Supplier Platform deleted. I'm aware that I've never had any products to be deleted, VIATOR, INC.
8:20 PM

Irene Katherine
Yes, I can see here your account Lead Dump.
8:18 PM
Look Viator, INC
8:18 PM
I'm asking that this account be deleted.
8:18 PM
I'm writing and corresponding to you from within the Viator Supplier Platform. I need access to the Viator Supplier Platform deleted. I'm aware that I've never had any products to be deleted, VIATOR, INC.
8:20 PM


Irene Katherine
Yes, I can see here your account Lead Dump.
8:18 PM
Look Viator, INC
8:18 PM
I'm asking that this account be deleted.
8:18 PM
I'm writing and corresponding to you from within the Viator Supplier Platform. I need access to the Viator Supplier Platform deleted. I'm aware that I've never had any products to be deleted, VIATOR, INC.
8:20 PM
Irene Katherine
Ok, I have now deactivated your account and you will not be able to log in back at supplier.viator.com.
8:21 PM

* * *

I think I'm going to use the word Bookmark in place of keep tabs. Never mind. forget it. I don't think I'm going to do that. I don't want to say prioritize. It's an on going priority. I don't know how to explain it.

Virtual Help Assistant
Thank you. Connecting you to an agent now.
8:10 PM
Irene Katherine
Hi, I'm Irene Katherine. Please give me a moment to read your message so that I can help.
8:11 PM
Glad to hear from you today! Am I chatting with Gordo?
8:12 PM
So it's just Kenneth Larot Yamat
8:12 PM
here is the issue
8:12 PM
I have no idea how to delete this account
8:13 PM
deactivation and deletion are two different things.
8:13 PM
i know that the account is deactivated.
8:13 PM
i need the account deleted.
8:13 PM

Irene Katherine
Hi, I'm Irene Katherine. Please give me a moment to read your message so that I can help.
8:11 PM
Glad to hear from you today! Am I chatting with Gordo?
8:12 PM
So it's just Kenneth Larot Yamat
8:12 PM
here is the issue
8:12 PM
I have no idea how to delete this account
8:13 PM
deactivation and deletion are two different things.
8:13 PM
i know that the account is deactivated.
8:13 PM
i need the account deleted.
8:13 PM
Irene Katherine
Thank you for the information and we would love to assist you deactivate the account.
8:13 PM
What I'm trying to state is that I would like the account completely deleted, rather than merely deactivated.
8:14 PM
Irene Katherine
May I ask the reason for activation please?
8:14 PM
I would like my information and login credentials scrubbed.
8:14 PM

i need the account deleted.
8:13 PM
Irene Katherine
Thank you for the information and we would love to assist you deactivate the account.
8:13 PM
What I'm trying to state is that I would like the account completely deleted, rather than merely deactivated.
8:14 PM
Irene Katherine
May I ask the reason for activation please?
8:14 PM
I would like my information and login credentials scrubbed.
8:14 PM
I guess what I'm trying to say is, on most other platforms, it's somehow possible to delete the account, meaning that the email no longer leads to a valid log in.
8:15 PM
i honestly don't know how to express this correctly.
8:15 PM
normally
8:15 PM
an account is something I can delete.
8:16 PM
but for some reason. there doesn't seem to be a way to delete this account.
8:16 PM

* * *

Irene Katherine
For account deactivation, it is processed internally.
8:16 PM
Once we have it deactivated, you can no longer log in on your Viator account and your listing page will be deleted permanently on our platform.
8:17 PM
Okay, I'll state this again, I would like the account completely deleted.
8:17 PM
You realize that I'm corresponding with you right now?
8:18 PM
which implies that I have an account.
8:18 PM

Once we have it deactivated, you can no longer log in on your Viator account and your listing page will be deleted permanently on our platform.
8:17 PM
Okay, I'll state this again, I would like the account completely deleted.
8:17 PM
You realize that I'm corresponding with you right now?
8:18 PM
which implies that I have an account.
8:18 PM
Irene Katherine
Yes, I can see here your account Lead Dump.
8:18 PM
Look Viator, INC
8:18 PM
I'm asking that this account be deleted.
8:18 PM

* * *

Irene Katherine
Yes, I can see here your account Lead Dump.
8:18 PM
Look Viator, INC
8:18 PM
I'm asking that this account be deleted.
8:18 PM
I'm writing and corresponding to you from within the Viator Supplier Platform. I need access to the Viator Supplier Platform deleted. I'm aware that I've never had any products to be deleted, VIATOR, INC.
8:20 PM

* * *

Irene Katherine
Yes, I can see here your account Lead Dump.
8:18 PM
Look Viator, INC
8:18 PM
I'm asking that this account be deleted.
8:18 PM
I'm writing and corresponding to you from within the Viator Supplier Platform. I need access to the Viator Supplier Platform deleted. I'm aware that I've never had any products to be deleted, VIATOR, INC.
8:20 PM
Irene Katherine
Ok, I have now deactivated your account and you will not be able to log in back at supplier.viator.com.
8:21 PM

* * *

I didn't go to bunriths funeral. not because i didn't care to go or because i thought that i
had more important things to do. but. the issue was that i didn't want to go back
to the bay area. i was fucking homeless my last few months there, and even though
i don't feel like my life was totally bad during those months of homelessness. i just
harbored a hell of a lot of resentment for the way that things went.

* * *

notes and reflections

* * *

Viator <email@t1.viator.com>
Thu, May 26, 7:05 AM (2 days ago)
to me

from:	Viator <email@t1.viator.com>
reply-to:	Viator <no-reply@t1.viator.com>
to:	prospectus.media.group@gmail.com
date:	May 26, 2022, 7:05 AM
subject:	Action required: Please update required legal information
mailed-by:	bounce.t1.viator.com
signed-by:	t1.viator.com
security:	 Standard encryption (TLS) Learn more
:	Important according to Google magic.
You have until June 5, 2022, to update your account ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ 
Viator
Hi Formagio,

We're contacting you regarding new consumer protection laws that are going to come into effect in the EU and the UK. You will need to take action by June 5, 2022.
The new law requires you to confirm whether you run your experiences as a business or as a private individual.
Under the new rules, if you are operating as a business, then users of our sites will be entitled to see information about your operation when booking one of your products. This information must include: public name, business address, email and phone number. It is your obligation to provide this information to Viator accurately.
To ensure that you are compliant with the new consumer protection law, log into the Viator Management Center to confirm your status and update your information by June 5, 2022.
Please take the following action by June 5, 2022:
•		In the Your information section of your Account page:

1. Confirm that you are operating as either a business or a private individual.
2. Review and confirm that your public name, address, and email are correct.
 
•		In the Product content section of your Product page:

1. Review and confirm the phone number you use for travelers to contact you under the 'Information travelers need from you'.
If you inform us that you are a private individual who hosts tours, activities, or other experiences, your listing will feature an advisory note, letting travelers know that their bookings may not be covered by national customer protection laws.
If you do not update the Viator Management Center by June 5, 2022, we will continue to treat you as a business.
For further information, please visit the Viator Help Center.
Viator
Management Center	|	Privacy Policy	|	Help Center
© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.
Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.
Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494

Kenneth Larot Yamat
Thu, May 26, 8:24 AM (2 days ago)
to Viator, omnibusenquiries, me

Greeting Viator, INC:

I'm not sure what to do about this: I've never had any intention of operating a tour company, nor have I ever had any interest whatsoever in tourism, hospitality, traveling, or any commercial activities appurtenant to tourism, or hospitality, or traveling.

I've actually tried to delete this account, as well as a number of other accounts for a few years now, and I've found it impossible to do so.

I'm sincerely unsure of how to handle this.

Sincerely,

Kenneth Larot Yamat

* * *

There is a woman on twitter. who. i'm kind of trying to engage in dialogue with, but, i'm afraid that if i interact with her directly. and i say the wrong thing. she'll block me. i think that she's part of the UX debate. which i actually haven't really researched very much. i just sort of. post shit with the tag #UX, and say something.

* * *

I'm just trying to think.

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
14m
🤖
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
1h
The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that they seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the dark web by SN: 
Val Pin the 666th

evil6doers6unite6. onion / ru / lat6lon6 / bounty6coins / luv6vladimir6putin666

#vladimirputin

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that they seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the illicit internet or dark web posted by Vladimir Nikita Stalin:

evil666doers666unite666. onion / ru / lat666lon666 / bounty666coins / luv666vladimir666putin666

* * *

On Thu, May 26, 2022, 7:05 AM Viator <email@t1.viator.com> wrote:
You have until June 5, 2022, to update your account ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ 
Viator
Hi Formagio,

We're contacting you regarding new consumer protection laws that are going to come into effect in the EU and the UK. You will need to take action by June 5, 2022.
The new law requires you to confirm whether you run your experiences as a business or as a private individual.
Under the new rules, if you are operating as a business, then users of our sites will be entitled to see information about your operation when booking one of your products. This information must include: public name, business address, email and phone number. It is your obligation to provide this information to Viator accurately.
To ensure that you are compliant with the new consumer protection law, log into the Viator Management Center to confirm your status and update your information by June 5, 2022.
Please take the following action by June 5, 2022:
•		In the Your information section of your Account page:

1. Confirm that you are operating as either a business or a private individual.
2. Review and confirm that your public name, address, and email are correct.
 
•		In the Product content section of your Product page:

1. Review and confirm the phone number you use for travelers to contact you under the 'Information travelers need from you'.
If you inform us that you are a private individual who hosts tours, activities, or other experiences, your listing will feature an advisory note, letting travelers know that their bookings may not be covered by national customer protection laws.
If you do not update the Viator Management Center by June 5, 2022, we will continue to treat you as a business.
For further information, please visit the Viator Help Center.
Viator
Management Center	|	Privacy Policy	|	Help Center
© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.
Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.
Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494

Chestnut and Hazel <prospectus.media.group@gmail.com>
Fri, May 27, 12:14 PM (1 day ago)
to Viator

Greeting Viator, INC:

I guess I don't have any applicable products, and in this case, these requirements do not apply to me. I've tried to delete this Viator Supplier account, but, I guess I'm unable to do that.

Sincerely,

Kenneth Larot Yamat unprofessionally known throughout the universe at Gordodillio Manugs Fatilliocarum

* * *

On Thu, May 26, 2022 at 7:05 AM Viator <email@t1.viator.com> wrote:
You have until June 5, 2022, to update your account ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ 
Viator
Hi Formagio,

We're contacting you regarding new consumer protection laws that are going to come into effect in the EU and the UK. You will need to take action by June 5, 2022.
The new law requires you to confirm whether you run your experiences as a business or as a private individual.
Under the new rules, if you are operating as a business, then users of our sites will be entitled to see information about your operation when booking one of your products. This information must include: public name, business address, email and phone number. It is your obligation to provide this information to Viator accurately.
To ensure that you are compliant with the new consumer protection law, log into the Viator Management Center to confirm your status and update your information by June 5, 2022.
Please take the following action by June 5, 2022:
•		In the Your information section of your Account page:

1. Confirm that you are operating as either a business or a private individual.
2. Review and confirm that your public name, address, and email are correct.
 
•		In the Product content section of your Product page:

1. Review and confirm the phone number you use for travelers to contact you under the 'Information travelers need from you'.
If you inform us that you are a private individual who hosts tours, activities, or other experiences, your listing will feature an advisory note, letting travelers know that their bookings may not be covered by national customer protection laws.
If you do not update the Viator Management Center by June 5, 2022, we will continue to treat you as a business.
For further information, please visit the Viator Help Center.
Viator
Management Center	|	Privacy Policy	|	Help Center
© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.
Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.
Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494

RE: SST Live Chat (Case number: 12633904) [ ref:_00Dd0gJSL._5006T1ynyPf:ref ]
Inbox

Suppliers <suppliers@viator.com>
Fri, May 27, 1:54 PM (1 day ago)
to me

Hi Travel Partner,

Thank you for contacting Viator. I wanted to follow up with you regarding your chat.

Upon checking, your account is already deactivated and no TripAdvisor listing page has been published on the website. 

If you have any other questions regarding your inquiry please contact us through the Viator Management Center (supplier.viator.com). Once you log in, click the Help icon in the bottom corner. When available, click Chat to be connected with Supplier Support.

Best regards,

Mary
Viator Support

ref:_00Dd0gJSL._5006T1ynyPf:ref

* * *

Current Goals:

Education
    - Keep Tabs on Admissions and Deadlines
    - Keep Tabs on Student Loans and Financial Aid
    - Internships
    - Languages
    - Math Classes
    - Programming
    - Finance outside of finance 
Employment
    -  Internships
    - University Career Resources
    - Relocation Opportunities
Texas Workforce Commission
    - Decide to Appeal or Not
    - Keep Tabs on Unpaid Wages

* * *

Is there a single word that can be used in place of: keep tabs? I think of stylistic choices. I've notices that people on Twitter either keep hash tags inside of the text, at the top of the text or at the bottom. I remember that citation style guides with either have in-text citations, or parenthetical citations, and others would have superscript citations, with either foot notes or end notes.

* * *

Current Goals:

Research Electives
    - Languages
    - Math Classes
    - Programming
    - Finance outside of finance 
Employment
    - Find Internships
    - Review Career Center Resources
    - Different Relocation Opportunities
Texas Workforce Commission
    - Decide to Appeal or Not
    - Keep Tabs on Unpaid Wages

* * *

I think I'll retitle the section "Research Electives" into a more general section "Education"

* * *

I think that while writing down my thoughts and reflections about what happened during any given day, I'll come across things that I need to do, things that I want to do, or things that I want to get done, or whatever. I think that I'll just add and subtract things, keep them floating at the top or whatever, floating at the top of each post.

* * *

Reiterate my Current Goals:

Research Electives
    - Languages
    - Math Classes
    - Programming
    - Finance outside of finance 
Employment
    - Find Internships
    - Review Career Center Resources
    - Different Relocation Opportunities
Texas Workforce Commission
    - Decide to Appeal or Not
    - Keep Tabs on Unpaid Wages

* * *

I'm going to. I have this idea. I'm going to keep goals at the top of each post.

* * *

Notes on recent goals

3 research electives
4 research post-graduation employment opportunities
1 edit the blog
        - This is important, but it's a major back-burner kind of an issue, so I'm just not dealing with it.
2 apply for scholarships
        - There aren't any scholarships for the program that I'm applying for.
5 figure out the tour company stuff
        - This to-do item never seems to get resolved, my tour guide account with Viator.com, isn't active               or live or functional in any way, but there also seems to be no way to fucking delete the account.
6 social media presence clean-up
        - I've decided against this for the time being.

* * *

"It is a great piece of skill to know how to guide your luck, even while you're waiting for it."

"You will receive a surprising gift very soon"

"Adversity is the parent of virtue"

These were some of adages or epigrams on the fortune cookies that I had in my wallet. Sometimes I read into things, and then, sometimes I think these things don't really mean anything.

What would my response to each one be:
    - What sort of luckiness should I be watching out for and guiding?
    - What surprising gift should I be looking out for
    - I think I was previously told: "Virtue lies in the struggle, not the prize."

* * *

Today there is an event at the stadium, and the traffic is bad, and I'm wondering if there will be parking when I get home. I went out for groceries, just a few sodas, and I'm wondering if maybe I should hang out in the grocery store parking lot or not.
I'm trying to think. i think the reason that i get blocked. on twitter. is that if a person's tone is. i don't know. patronizing. or condescending. trivializing. or marginalizing. or snide or snarky. i'll usually adopt a similar tone. and it usually just pisses people off.

* * *

what the hell do I have to do? I have stay off twitter. I've only been blocked a hand full of times. I want to say three. I'm sure i've pissed everyone off. anyway. what i'm thinking about. going back to the completion of my graduate school application. is that. i am really fucking scared. i do have to take out student loans to get through school. and i know that i'll have to pay them back. This is really fucking scary. taking out student loans. and i'm not sure.

but i'm thinking that i really just need to be careful about it. going to graduate school is something that i've been wanting to do for a while. i might as well just do it, and take it as it comes.

* * *

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 53

Current Goals:

Education
    - Keep Tabs on Admissions and Deadlines
    - Keep Tabs on Student Loans and Financial Aid
    - Internships
    - Languages
    - Math Classes
    - Programming
    - Finance outside of finance 
Employment
    -  Internships
    - University Career Resources
    - Relocation Opportunities
Texas Workforce Commission
    - Decide to Appeal or Not
    - Keep Tabs on Unpaid Wages

* * *

Viator, INC notes.

Still trying to delete this account.

I would like to delete this account completely, but there doesn't seem to be an option for doing that. There doesn't seem to be a mechanism for doing that, how do I delete this account.

Virtual Help Assistant
Thank you. Connecting you to an agent now.
8:10 PM
Irene Katherine
Hi, I'm Irene Katherine. Please give me a moment to read your message so that I can help.
8:11 PM
Glad to hear from you today! Am I chatting with Gordo?
8:12 PM
So it's just Kenneth Larot Yamat
8:12 PM
here is the issue
8:12 PM
I have no idea how to delete this account
8:13 PM
deactivation and deletion are two different things.
8:13 PM
i know that the account is deactivated.
8:13 PM
i need the account deleted.
8:13 PM

Irene Katherine
Hi, I'm Irene Katherine. Please give me a moment to read your message so that I can help.
8:11 PM
Glad to hear from you today! Am I chatting with Gordo?
8:12 PM
So it's just Kenneth Larot Yamat
8:12 PM
here is the issue
8:12 PM
I have no idea how to delete this account
8:13 PM
deactivation and deletion are two different things.
8:13 PM
i know that the account is deactivated.
8:13 PM
i need the account deleted.
8:13 PM
Irene Katherine
Thank you for the information and we would love to assist you deactivate the account.
8:13 PM
What I'm trying to state is that I would like the account completely deleted, rather than merely deactivated.
8:14 PM
Irene Katherine
May I ask the reason for activation please?
8:14 PM
I would like my information and login credentials scrubbed.
8:14 PM

8:14 PM

i need the account deleted.
8:13 PM
Irene Katherine
Thank you for the information and we would love to assist you deactivate the account.
8:13 PM
What I'm trying to state is that I would like the account completely deleted, rather than merely deactivated.
8:14 PM
Irene Katherine
May I ask the reason for activation please?
8:14 PM
I would like my information and login credentials scrubbed.
8:14 PM
I guess what I'm trying to say is, on most other platforms, it's somehow possible to delete the account, meaning that the email no longer leads to a valid log in.
8:15 PM
i honestly don't know how to express this correctly.
8:15 PM
normally
8:15 PM
an account is something I can delete.
8:16 PM
but for some reason. there doesn't seem to be a way to delete this account.
8:16 PM

Irene Katherine
For account deactivation, it is processed internally.
8:16 PM
Once we have it deactivated, you can no longer log in on your Viator account and your listing page will be deleted permanently on our platform.
8:17 PM
Okay, I'll state this again, I would like the account completely deleted.
8:17 PM
You realize that I'm corresponding with you right now?
8:18 PM
which implies that I have an account.
8:18 PM

Irene Katherine
For account deactivation, it is processed internally.
8:16 PM
Once we have it deactivated, you can no longer log in on your Viator account and your listing page will be deleted permanently on our platform.
8:17 PM
Okay, I'll state this again, I would like the account completely deleted.
8:17 PM
You realize that I'm corresponding with you right now?
8:18 PM
which implies that I have an account.
8:18 PM

Once we have it deactivated, you can no longer log in on your Viator account and your listing page will be deleted permanently on our platform.
8:17 PM
Okay, I'll state this again, I would like the account completely deleted.
8:17 PM
You realize that I'm corresponding with you right now?
8:18 PM
which implies that I have an account.
8:18 PM
Irene Katherine
Yes, I can see here your account Lead Dump.
8:18 PM
Look Viator, INC
8:18 PM
I'm asking that this account be deleted.
8:18 PM

Once we have it deactivated, you can no longer log in on your Viator account and your listing page will be deleted permanently on our platform.
8:17 PM
Okay, I'll state this again, I would like the account completely deleted.
8:17 PM
You realize that I'm corresponding with you right now?
8:18 PM
which implies that I have an account.
8:18 PM
Irene Katherine
Yes, I can see here your account Lead Dump.
8:18 PM
Look Viator, INC
8:18 PM
I'm asking that this account be deleted.
8:18 PM

* * *

Irene Katherine
Yes, I can see here your account Lead Dump.
8:18 PM
Look Viator, INC
8:18 PM
I'm asking that this account be deleted.
8:18 PM
I'm writing and corresponding to you from within the Viator Supplier Platform. I need access to the Viator Supplier Platform deleted. I'm aware that I've never had any products to be deleted, VIATOR, INC.
8:20 PM

Irene Katherine
Yes, I can see here your account Lead Dump.
8:18 PM
Look Viator, INC
8:18 PM
I'm asking that this account be deleted.
8:18 PM
I'm writing and corresponding to you from within the Viator Supplier Platform. I need access to the Viator Supplier Platform deleted. I'm aware that I've never had any products to be deleted, VIATOR, INC.
8:20 PM

* * *

Irene Katherine
Yes, I can see here your account Lead Dump.
8:18 PM
Look Viator, INC
8:18 PM
I'm asking that this account be deleted.
8:18 PM
I'm writing and corresponding to you from within the Viator Supplier Platform. I need access to the Viator Supplier Platform deleted. I'm aware that I've never had any products to be deleted, VIATOR, INC.
8:20 PM
Irene Katherine
Ok, I have now deactivated your account and you will not be able to log in back at supplier.viator.com.
8:21 PM

* * *

I think I'm going to use the word Bookmark in place of keep tabs. Never mind. forget it. I don't think I'm going to do that. I don't want to say prioritize. It's an on going priority. I don't know how to explain it.

Virtual Help Assistant
Thank you. Connecting you to an agent now.
8:10 PM
Irene Katherine
Hi, I'm Irene Katherine. Please give me a moment to read your message so that I can help.
8:11 PM
Glad to hear from you today! Am I chatting with Gordo?
8:12 PM
So it's just Kenneth Larot Yamat
8:12 PM
here is the issue
8:12 PM
I have no idea how to delete this account
8:13 PM
deactivation and deletion are two different things.
8:13 PM
i know that the account is deactivated.
8:13 PM
i need the account deleted.
8:13 PM

* * *

Irene Katherine
Hi, I'm Irene Katherine. Please give me a moment to read your message so that I can help.
8:11 PM
Glad to hear from you today! Am I chatting with Gordo?
8:12 PM
So it's just Kenneth Larot Yamat
8:12 PM
here is the issue
8:12 PM
I have no idea how to delete this account
8:13 PM
deactivation and deletion are two different things.
8:13 PM
i know that the account is deactivated.
8:13 PM
i need the account deleted.
8:13 PM
Irene Katherine
Thank you for the information and we would love to assist you deactivate the account.
8:13 PM
What I'm trying to state is that I would like the account completely deleted, rather than merely deactivated.
8:14 PM
Irene Katherine
May I ask the reason for activation please?
8:14 PM
I would like my information and login credentials scrubbed.
8:14 PM

i need the account deleted.
8:13 PM
Irene Katherine
Thank you for the information and we would love to assist you deactivate the account.
8:13 PM
What I'm trying to state is that I would like the account completely deleted, rather than merely deactivated.
8:14 PM
Irene Katherine
May I ask the reason for activation please?
8:14 PM
I would like my information and login credentials scrubbed.
8:14 PM
I guess what I'm trying to say is, on most other platforms, it's somehow possible to delete the account, meaning that the email no longer leads to a valid log in.
8:15 PM
i honestly don't know how to express this correctly.
8:15 PM
normally
8:15 PM
an account is something I can delete.
8:16 PM
but for some reason. there doesn't seem to be a way to delete this account.
8:16 PM

* * *

Irene Katherine
For account deactivation, it is processed internally.
8:16 PM
Once we have it deactivated, you can no longer log in on your Viator account and your listing page will be deleted permanently on our platform.
8:17 PM
Okay, I'll state this again, I would like the account completely deleted.
8:17 PM
You realize that I'm corresponding with you right now?
8:18 PM
which implies that I have an account.
8:18 PM

Once we have it deactivated, you can no longer log in on your Viator account and your listing page will be deleted permanently on our platform.
8:17 PM
Okay, I'll state this again, I would like the account completely deleted.
8:17 PM
You realize that I'm corresponding with you right now?
8:18 PM
which implies that I have an account.
8:18 PM
Irene Katherine
Yes, I can see here your account Lead Dump.
8:18 PM
Look Viator, INC
8:18 PM
I'm asking that this account be deleted.
8:18 PM

* * *

Irene Katherine
Yes, I can see here your account Lead Dump.
8:18 PM
Look Viator, INC
8:18 PM
I'm asking that this account be deleted.
8:18 PM
I'm writing and corresponding to you from within the Viator Supplier Platform. I need access to the Viator Supplier Platform deleted. I'm aware that I've never had any products to be deleted, VIATOR, INC.
8:20 PM

* * *

Irene Katherine
Yes, I can see here your account Lead Dump.
8:18 PM
Look Viator, INC
8:18 PM
I'm asking that this account be deleted.
8:18 PM
I'm writing and corresponding to you from within the Viator Supplier Platform. I need access to the Viator Supplier Platform deleted. I'm aware that I've never had any products to be deleted, VIATOR, INC.
8:20 PM
Irene Katherine
Ok, I have now deactivated your account and you will not be able to log in back at supplier.viator.com.
8:21 PM

Viator <email@t1.viator.com>
Thu, May 26, 7:05 AM (2 days ago)
to me

from:	Viator <email@t1.viator.com>
reply-to:	Viator <no-reply@t1.viator.com>
to:	prospectus.media.group@gmail.com
date:	May 26, 2022, 7:05 AM
subject:	Action required: Please update required legal information
mailed-by:	bounce.t1.viator.com
signed-by:	t1.viator.com
security:	 Standard encryption (TLS) Learn more
:	Important according to Google magic.
You have until June 5, 2022, to update your account ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ 
Viator
Hi Formagio,

We're contacting you regarding new consumer protection laws that are going to come into effect in the EU and the UK. You will need to take action by June 5, 2022.
The new law requires you to confirm whether you run your experiences as a business or as a private individual.
Under the new rules, if you are operating as a business, then users of our sites will be entitled to see information about your operation when booking one of your products. This information must include: public name, business address, email and phone number. It is your obligation to provide this information to Viator accurately.
To ensure that you are compliant with the new consumer protection law, log into the Viator Management Center to confirm your status and update your information by June 5, 2022.
Please take the following action by June 5, 2022:
•		In the Your information section of your Account page:

1. Confirm that you are operating as either a business or a private individual.
2. Review and confirm that your public name, address, and email are correct.
 
•		In the Product content section of your Product page:

1. Review and confirm the phone number you use for travelers to contact you under the 'Information travelers need from you'.
If you inform us that you are a private individual who hosts tours, activities, or other experiences, your listing will feature an advisory note, letting travelers know that their bookings may not be covered by national customer protection laws.
If you do not update the Viator Management Center by June 5, 2022, we will continue to treat you as a business.
For further information, please visit the Viator Help Center.
Viator
Management Center	|	Privacy Policy	|	Help Center
© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.
Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.
Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494

Kenneth Larot Yamat
Thu, May 26, 8:24 AM (2 days ago)
to Viator, omnibusenquiries, me

Greeting Viator, INC:

I'm not sure what to do about this: I've never had any intention of operating a tour company, nor have I ever had any interest whatsoever in tourism, hospitality, traveling, or any commercial activities appurtenant to tourism, or hospitality, or traveling.

I've actually tried to delete this account, as well as a number of other accounts for a few years now, and I've found it impossible to do so.

I'm sincerely unsure of how to handle this.

Sincerely,

Kenneth Larot Yamat

* * *

On Thu, May 26, 2022, 7:05 AM Viator <email@t1.viator.com> wrote:
You have until June 5, 2022, to update your account ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ 
Viator
Hi Formagio,

We're contacting you regarding new consumer protection laws that are going to come into effect in the EU and the UK. You will need to take action by June 5, 2022.
The new law requires you to confirm whether you run your experiences as a business or as a private individual.
Under the new rules, if you are operating as a business, then users of our sites will be entitled to see information about your operation when booking one of your products. This information must include: public name, business address, email and phone number. It is your obligation to provide this information to Viator accurately.
To ensure that you are compliant with the new consumer protection law, log into the Viator Management Center to confirm your status and update your information by June 5, 2022.
Please take the following action by June 5, 2022:
•		In the Your information section of your Account page:

1. Confirm that you are operating as either a business or a private individual.
2. Review and confirm that your public name, address, and email are correct.
 
•		In the Product content section of your Product page:

1. Review and confirm the phone number you use for travelers to contact you under the 'Information travelers need from you'.
If you inform us that you are a private individual who hosts tours, activities, or other experiences, your listing will feature an advisory note, letting travelers know that their bookings may not be covered by national customer protection laws.
If you do not update the Viator Management Center by June 5, 2022, we will continue to treat you as a business.
For further information, please visit the Viator Help Center.
Viator
Management Center	|	Privacy Policy	|	Help Center
© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.
Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.
Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494

Chestnut and Hazel <prospectus.media.group@gmail.com>
Fri, May 27, 12:14 PM (1 day ago)
to Viator

Greeting Viator, INC:

I guess I don't have any applicable products, and in this case, these requirements do not apply to me. I've tried to delete this Viator Supplier account, but, I guess I'm unable to do that.

Sincerely,

Kenneth Larot Yamat unprofessionally known throughout the universe at Gordodillio Manugs Fatilliocarum

* * *

On Thu, May 26, 2022 at 7:05 AM Viator <email@t1.viator.com> wrote:
You have until June 5, 2022, to update your account ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ 
Viator
Hi Formagio,

We're contacting you regarding new consumer protection laws that are going to come into effect in the EU and the UK. You will need to take action by June 5, 2022.
The new law requires you to confirm whether you run your experiences as a business or as a private individual.
Under the new rules, if you are operating as a business, then users of our sites will be entitled to see information about your operation when booking one of your products. This information must include: public name, business address, email and phone number. It is your obligation to provide this information to Viator accurately.
To ensure that you are compliant with the new consumer protection law, log into the Viator Management Center to confirm your status and update your information by June 5, 2022.
Please take the following action by June 5, 2022:
•		In the Your information section of your Account page:

1. Confirm that you are operating as either a business or a private individual.
2. Review and confirm that your public name, address, and email are correct.
 
•		In the Product content section of your Product page:

1. Review and confirm the phone number you use for travelers to contact you under the 'Information travelers need from you'.
If you inform us that you are a private individual who hosts tours, activities, or other experiences, your listing will feature an advisory note, letting travelers know that their bookings may not be covered by national customer protection laws.
If you do not update the Viator Management Center by June 5, 2022, we will continue to treat you as a business.
For further information, please visit the Viator Help Center.
Viator
Management Center	|	Privacy Policy	|	Help Center
© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.
Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.
Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494

RE: SST Live Chat (Case number: 12633904) [ ref:_00Dd0gJSL._5006T1ynyPf:ref ]
Inbox

Suppliers <suppliers@viator.com>
Fri, May 27, 1:54 PM (1 day ago)
to me

Hi Travel Partner,

Thank you for contacting Viator. I wanted to follow up with you regarding your chat.

Upon checking, your account is already deactivated and no TripAdvisor listing page has been published on the website. 

If you have any other questions regarding your inquiry please contact us through the Viator Management Center (supplier.viator.com). Once you log in, click the Help icon in the bottom corner. When available, click Chat to be connected with Supplier Support.

Best regards,

Mary
Viator Support

ref:_00Dd0gJSL._5006T1ynyPf:ref

* * *

Current Goals:

Education
    - Keep Tabs on Admissions and Deadlines
    - Keep Tabs on Student Loans and Financial Aid
    - Internships
    - Languages
    - Math Classes
    - Programming
    - Finance outside of finance 
Employment
    -  Internships
    - University Career Resources
    - Relocation Opportunities
Texas Workforce Commission
    - Decide to Appeal or Not
    - Keep Tabs on Unpaid Wages

* * *

Is there a single word that can be used in place of: keep tabs? I think of stylistic choices. I've notices that people on Twitter either keep hash tags inside of the text, at the top of the text or at the bottom. I remember that citation style guides with either have in-text citations, or parenthetical citations, and others would have superscript citations, with either foot notes or end notes.

* * *

Current Goals:

Research Electives
    - Languages
    - Math Classes
    - Programming
    - Finance outside of finance 
Employment
    - Find Internships
    - Review Career Center Resources
    - Different Relocation Opportunities
Texas Workforce Commission
    - Decide to Appeal or Not
    - Keep Tabs on Unpaid Wages

* * *

I think I'll retitle the section "Research Electives" into a more general section "Education"

* * *

I think that while writing down my thoughts and reflections about what happened during any given day, I'll come across things that I need to do, things that I want to do, or things that I want to get done, or whatever. I think that I'll just add and subtract things, keep them floating at the top or whatever, floating at the top of each post.

* * *

Reiterate my Current Goals:

Research Electives
    - Languages
    - Math Classes
    - Programming
    - Finance outside of finance 
Employment
    - Find Internships
    - Review Career Center Resources
    - Different Relocation Opportunities
Texas Workforce Commission
    - Decide to Appeal or Not
    - Keep Tabs on Unpaid Wages

* * *

I'm going to. I have this idea. I'm going to keep goals at the top of each post.

* * *

Notes on recent goals

3 research electives
4 research post-graduation employment opportunities
1 edit the blog
        - This is important, but it's a major back-burner kind of an issue, so I'm just not dealing with it.
2 apply for scholarships
        - There aren't any scholarships for the program that I'm applying for.
5 figure out the tour company stuff
        - This to-do item never seems to get resolved, my tour guide account with Viator.com, isn't active               or live or functional in any way, but there also seems to be no way to fucking delete the account.
6 social media presence clean-up
        - I've decided against this for the time being.

* * *

"It is a great piece of skill to know how to guide your luck, even while you're waiting for it."

"You will receive a surprising gift very soon"

"Adversity is the parent of virtue"

These were some of adages or epigrams on the fortune cookies that I had in my wallet. Sometimes I read into things, and then, sometimes I think these things don't really mean anything.

What would my response to each one be:
    - What sort of luckiness should I be watching out for and guiding?
    - What surprising gift should I be looking out for
    - I think I was previously told: "Virtue lies in the struggle, not the prize."

* * *

Today there is an event at the stadium, and the traffic is bad, and I'm wondering if there will be parking when I get home. I went out for groceries, just a few sodas, and I'm wondering if maybe I should hang out in the grocery store parking lot or not.
I'm trying to think. i think the reason that i get blocked. on twitter. is that if a person's tone is. i don't know. patronizing. or condescending. trivializing. or marginalizing. or snide or snarky. i'll usually adopt a similar tone. and it usually just pisses people off.

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that these seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the illicit internet or dark web posted by Vladimir Nikita Stalin:

evil666doers666unite666. onion / ru / lat666lon666/ bounty 666coins / luv666vladimir666putin666
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
The most eerie aspect of the recent mass tragedies is that these seem to correspond to six help wanted ads posted on the dark web / illicit internet posted by Vladimir Nikita Stalin:

evil666doers666unite666. onion / ru / lat666lon666/ bounty 666coins / luv666vladimir666putin666

* * *

what the hell do I have to do? I have stay off twitter. I've only been blocked a hand full of times. I want to say three. I'm sure i've pissed everyone off. anyway. what i'm thinking about. going back to the completion of my graduate school application. is that. i am really fucking scared. i do have to take out student loans to get through school. and i know that i'll have to pay them back. This is really fucking scary. taking out student loans. and i'm not sure.

but i'm thinking that i really just need to be careful about it. going to graduate school is something that i've been wanting to do for a while. i might as well just do it, and take it as it comes.

* * *



I don't know what I did, but for several days I've had nothing but incoming calls regarding positions with various companies or whatever, but, I already have a start date for my next position, so I haven't responded, and it has been kind of distracting. It's. Well. I kind of have to figure out what I need to get done.

* * *

There really aren't any scholarships for the program I'm applying for.

* * *

What a nightmare. I can't sleep. Again. 2 days. And all this shit that's going on. Domestically and internationally. I can't sleep. I thought about going kayaking, forget it.






* * *

Mass tragedies and mass casualty incidents. Nightmares. Real nightmares. I don't entirely want to think about these things every single fucking day. There's a desire just to forget about these things.

How much can I really fucking do to solve these issues?

I deal with nightmares every single night. and every single day. and all the fucking time.

I often feel like I'm forced to speak about things, and. I know that I'm just going to say the wrong fucking things.

and you know that I'm going to say the wrong fucking things. so why do you ask me to say things?

* * *

I remember him saying something like: self-deprecating humor doesn't always facilitate vocational success.

But I also remember being told that humility is virtuous.

* * *

I think he said something like self-deprecating humor doesn't always facilitate vocational success.

* * *

1 edit the blog
2 apply for scholarships
3 research electives
4 research post-graduation 
   employment opportunities
5 figure out the tour company stuff
6 social media presence clean-up

* * *

1 edit the blog
2 apply for scholarships
3 research electives
4 research post-graduation 
   employment opportunities
5 figure out the tour company stuff

* * *

1 edit the blog
2 apply for scholarships
3 research electives
4 research post-graduation 
   employment opportunities

* * *

I really think that these mass tragedies are connected in some way. In a kind of Evil begets Evil kind of way.

* * *

I just dont know what the hell to do about that, about the, sexual content warning. No one reads this blog. 

And I only make about a dollar a year anyway from hosting banner ads.

* * *

What the hell? Sexual content violation? Fucking. Vladimir Putin! 

I could have sworn I took all the boob photograph collections down. Stupid.

* * *

I didn't get any sleep the other night. I was up for most of the day. I didn't have nightmares, but I had daydreams bearing the quality of nightmares. I need to apply for a scholarship, or something; I had the intention of doing that today, but I was just too tired. 

* * *

Okay. I'm also having nightmares.

* * *

Yeah, so, I apologize for unsuccessfully flirting with women on Twitter. There. 

I also apologize for attempting to successfully flirt with women on Twitter.

I don't know what else to say. About that.

* * *

So what was it? Um. Here is how I feel: I want to pursue the things that I'm interested in. I don't want to get distracted by all this other nonsense.

* * *

Taverna - Bistro - Pub - Public House

* * *

I think title casing refers to all-caps and UI refers to user interface, but I have to look that up.

* * *

an LMS is a learning management system

* * *

My unemployment claim was denied or disqualified or whatever. so. i really just have to wait until i start work. i think. i think that all my expenses are paid through the end of june anyway. and i do
 have food that i can eat. food at my residence. that. i can actually eat.

* * *

additional specific requirements may need to be submitted. there is always some kind of small detail or another that needs to be addressed. but. as far as i can tell. i think everything is. i don't know. prepared.

* * *

i think that i basically have to wait for an admissions decision before and kind of stuff related to student loans, grants or financial aid is determined. most of the paragraphs end with something like. you college will notify you of such and such award determination.

* * *

NSF stands for National Science Foundation.

* * *

I might be looking at this thing for a while.

* * *

grants.gov is actually a kind of interesting. i don't know what to call it. like a database or archive of whatever kind of grants are available for. whatever kind of projects are deemed necessary. 

* * *

what am i dealing with. right now. at this very moment? well. i'm organizing some of my archived files on my laptop. i have to think. yeah. this is a waste of time. somewhat of a waste of time. but it is something that i want to do. and it is something that i consider kind of important.

* * *

Thumbnail Choices:

  Artists & Scientists: 
     Samuel Finley Breese Morse
  Bureaucrats & Legislators: 
     Alexander Hamilton
  Entrepreneurs & Magnates: 
     Éleuthère Irénée du Pont de Nemours
  Strategists & Tacticians: 
     John Charles Frémont

What else do I need to work on?

* * *

I really think that these mass tragedies are connected in some way. In a kind of Evil begets Evil kind of way.

* * *

I'm getting fucking distracted again. I had my Unemployment Benefits claim disqualified. My application to the University of Texas at Arlington is complete. I have a start date for work.

What do I need to work on?

* * *

Years ago I was at a bar and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian🐊 conspiracy and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians🐙🦑, insectilians🦋, or robotilians🤖.

#DanishCookieUXorious

* * *

Years ago I was at a bar and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian🐊 conspiracy and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians🐙🦑, insectilians🦋, or robotilians🤖.

#DanishCookieUXorious

* * *

Years ago I was at a bar and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian🐊 conspiracy and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians🐙🦑, insectilians🦋, or robotilians🤖.

#DanishCookieUXorious

* * *

#granny slut gilf-garch

my intention is to eventually file a formal copyright with the Library of Congress, Copyright Office for this series of tweets. I'm posting it now, and I'll deal with it later.

#granny slut gilf-garch

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
2h
i don't think the granny slut gilf-garch from the ministry of truth should edit anyone's comments! my rouble is 7.5 american inches, and and yields 7.5 british pounds for every 7.5 russian euro-kilometers! if she tries to round that up, i'll complain to the thought police!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
2h
I don't think the granny slut gilf-garch from the ministry of truth should edit anyone's comments! my rouble is 7.5 american inches, and and yields 7.5 british pounds for every 7.5 russian kilometers! if she tries to round that up i'll complain to the thought police!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
2h
I don't think the granny slut gilf-garch from the ministry of truth should edit anyone's comments! my rouble is 7.5 american inches, and and yields 7.5 british pounds for every 7.5 russian kilometers of perimeter when measured with an electron micro-scope!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
2h
I don't think the granny slut gilf-garch from the ministry of truth should edit anyone's comments! my rouble is 7.5 american inches, and and yields 7.5 british pounds for every 7.5 russian kilometers, of perimeter when measured with an electron micro-scope!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
2h
I don't think the granny slut gilf-garch from the ministry of truth should edit anyone's comments! my rouble is 7.5 american inches, and and yields 7.5 british pounds for every 7.5 russian kilometers, of perimeter!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
2h
I don't think the granny slut gilf-garch from the ministry of truth should edit anyone's comments! my rouble is 7.5 american inches, and and yields 7.5 british pounds for every 7.4 russian kilometers, of perimeter!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
2h
I figured out exactly how to use the antikythera mechanism: it's a paper weight. Other than that? I don't know; some kind of ancient xenomorph or yautja compass-sextant-astrolabe-GPS navigation bullshit?
#UX
#UXdesign
#UXengineering
#userexperienceforarcheologists
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
4h
I figured out exactly how to use the antikythera mechanism: it's a paper weight. Other than that? I don't know; some kind of ancient xenomorph or yatuja compas-sextant-astrolabe-GPS navigation bullshit?
#UX
#UXdesign
#UXengineering
#userexperienceforarcheologists

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
22h
... and, I guess in that vein, I guess I should no longer refer to my 7.5 inch Johnson as a form of currency, even though it is surely a 7.5 inch money maker!
#inflation 
#filipinodollar
#filipinopeso
#filipinodong
#filipinowang
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
22h
... and, I guess in that vein, I guess I should no longer refer to my 7.5 inch Johnson as a form of currency, even though it is surely a 7.5 inch money maker!
#inflation
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
22h
I also think that cryptocurrency could potentially fall under the purview and supervision of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or should be referred to by some other name.
#OfficeoftheComptrolleroftheCurrency
#kryptonite
#criptonium
#cryptonium
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
22h
I also think that cryptocurrency could potentially fall under the purview and supervision of Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or should be referred to by some other name.
#OfficeoftheComptrolleroftheCurrency
#kryptonite
#criptonium
#cryptonium
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
22h
I also want to propose a new word for entrance into the Oxford English Dictionary: reductio ad vladimir putin, where, no matter what the issue is, Vladimir Putin is attributed as the cause
#vladimirputin!
#OEdemis
#oxfordenglishdictionary
#LibraryofCongress
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
22h
Couldn't we just blame Vladimir Putin for inflation? by propping and manipulating his Rouble, he's causing the value of all other currencies to fall, the falling value of a currency is often thought of as inflation
#inflation 
#vladimirputin!
#OfficeoftheComptrolleroftheCurrency
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 14
Jargonisms invariably lead to jumbled understandings and Jingoisms, but as wise bitches say: when there's blood in the streets, buy!
#grannygarchs
#GILFzillas
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 14
Better have a six-pack means: better have a beer belly dad bod, or a well chiseled god bod.
#GILFzilla
#grannygarch
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 14
Jargonisms invariably lead to jumbled understandings and Jingoisms, but as wise crack dealers say: when there's blood in the streets, buy!
#grannygarchs
#GILFzillas
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 14
Jargonisms invariably lead to jumbled understandings and Jingoisms, but as wise men say: when there's blood in the streets, buy!
#grannygarchs
#GILFzillas
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 14
Godforsaken GILF, better have cash like a cow! I need that milk money now!
#GILFzilla
#GILFconspiracy
#grannygarch

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 11
Dobbs v. Jackson overturning Roe is a Cougar-GILF conspiracy! I went to Florida and caddied golf all day at GILF-land Country Club! Tossing out Disney World via MILF-land tax dis-incentives! Old bitch made me shine her furniture!
#cougarconspiracy
#SCOTUS
#taxbreaksforMILFland
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 11
Dobbs v. Jackson overturning Roe is a Cougar-GILF conspiracy! I went to Florida and caddied golf all day at GILF-land Country Club! Tossing out Disney World via a MILF-land tax dis-incentive! Old bitch made me shine her furniture!
#cougarconspiracy
#SCOTUS
#taxbreaksforMILFland
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 11
Dobbs v. Jackson overturning Roe is a Cougar-GILF conspiracy! I went to Florida and caddied golf all day at GILF-land Country Club! Tossing out Disney World to prevent a MILF takeover! Old bitch made me shine her furniture!
#cougarconspiracy
#SCOTUS
#vladimirputinisthedevil
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 10
Ferdinand Marcos Jr won the presidential election? Well, you know I'm buying shares in shoe companies!
#noshoesforvladimirputin
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 10
Ferdinand Marcos Jr won the presidential election? Well, you know I'm buying shares in shoe companies!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 10
If Dobbs v. Jackson overturns Roe and Casey I'll have no choice but to focus all my attention on CougarsOnly and PlentyOfGILFs. Vladimir Putin better watch out! I'll look up his old lady on Wikipedia!
#cougarconspiracy
#SCOTUS
#vladimirputinisthedevil
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 10
If Dobbs v. Jackson overturns Roe and Casey I'll have no choice but to focus all my attention on CougarsOnly and PlentyOfGILFs, Vladimir Putin better watch out! I'll look up his old lady on Wikipedia!
#cougarconspiracy
#SCOTUS
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 10
If Dobbs v. Jackson overturns Roe and Casey, then, I'll have no choice but to focus all of my attention on the CougarsOnly and PlentyOfGILFs apps.
#cougarconspiracy
#SCOTUS
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 10
If Dobbs v. Jackson overturns Roe and Casey, then, I'll have no choice but to focus all of my attention and efforts on the Cougar GILFs Only app.
#cougarconspiracy
#SCOTUS
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 10
If Dobbs v. Jackson overturns Roe and Casey, then, I'll have no choice but to focus all of my attention and efforts on the Cougars and GILFs Only app.
#cougarconspiracy
#SCOTUS
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 10
If Dobbs v. Jackson overturns Roe and Casey, then, I'll have no choice but to focus all of my attention and efforts on Cougars Only.
#cougarconspiracy
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 9
#granny slut gilf-garch

* * *





I think that. I want to say that people can throw around the word: investing. and i think that it's important to understand investing versus over investing. being invested in something is usually a good thing. investing in something is usually a good thing, but there are times when an investment proves to be. an investment might prove to be a bad one. and of course. i've been there in terms of having invested in something that turned out to be a bad investment.

* * *

So what did I do today? well. I went out to eat at three different places. I had ice cream, pasta, and barbecue, and that's a very generic description of the places that I went to eat at today. I have to watch out about wasting, or spending, or over investing my time doing internet crap. and. i have to watch out about wasting, or spending, or over investing my time going out and eating everything that i can.

* * *

What do I need to work on? Okay. I got distracted again. Transcribing notes. working on stuff for my twitter profile. I just can't believe how much time I've been spending on there. There was an Automated Profile, or an Automated Bot Re-Tweeter that caught my attention, and I found it interesting. I ended up experimenting with emojis for a while.

* * *

Thumbnail Choices:

Artists & Scientists: Samuel Finley Breese Morse

Bureaucrats & Legislators: Alexander Hamilton

Entrepreneurs & Magnates: Éleuthère Irénée du Pont de Nemours

Strategists & Tacticians: John Charles Frémont

* * *

UTA: Post UTA Employment Prospects
        My thinking is that I could make myself more marketable post-graduation by having a broader                skill set. Taking classes. Taking electives that are finance related, but, i don't want to have too                narrow a viewpoint on the subject.

* * *

an UEI is a unique entity identifier.

* * *

The main issues that are weighing on my mind right now are: 

UTA: Acceptance
            Notes: I think that my application is in order. I think I've submitted everything that UTA has                    requested, and I think that at this point it's just a matter of being accepted or rejected. I think                    that I wrote to UTA about the transcripts issue with UNLV, I received an admissions decision                from UNLV, and was admitted, but I never attended.

UTA: Payment
            I don't even know what the fuck to do about this.

UTA: Sufficient Credit

UTA: Sufficient Assets
 
UTA: Post UTA Employment Prospects

* * *

The main issues that are weighing on my mind right now are: 

UTA: Acceptance 

UTA: Payment

UTA: Sufficient Credit

UTA: Sufficient Assets
 
UTA: Post UTA Employment Prospects

* * *

I'm going to refer to this session as: 
    Goal Iterations - Iterations of an Itinerary - 
    Reiterating my Goals - RE:iterating my GO:als

* * *

The main issues that are weighing on my mind right now are: 

getting into graduate school, 

paying for graduate school, 

paying back any student loans that I might accumulate while attending graduate school, 

completing graduate school without running out of cash and credit,
 
and then finding employment sufficiently remunerative such that any student loans I have to pay back aren't excessively burdensome.

* * *

The main issues that are weighing on my mind right now are: 

getting into graduate school, 

paying for graduate school, 

paying back any student loans that I might accumulate while attending graduate school, 

completing graduate school without running out of cash and credit, a

nd then finding employment sufficiently remunerative such that any student loans I have to pay back aren't excessively burdensome.

* * *

So I need to start here:

The main issues that are weighing on my mind right now are: getting into graduate school, paying for graduate school, paying back any student loans that I might accumulate while attending graduate school, completing graduate school without running out of cash and credit, and then finding employment sufficiently remunerative such that any student loans I have to pay back aren't excessively burdensome.

* * *

Fuck. Let me think for a minute. Incessant distractions. There was something that I was thinking about. Okay. it's about the wash loss rule regarding stock trading. I wouldn't be worrying about this right now, however, I basically did not get. My unemployment insurance claim was not approved, or, disqualified, so I'm basically selling the shares I have in my Robinhood account to cover my current needs, and this also wouldn't be an issue, however, the current market prices of the shares I'm selling are below my cost-basis for the shares that I'm selling.

So I'm selling my fucking shares at a realized loss, and this has the potential to cause me to run afoul of the wash-sale rule in the event that I'm not realizing my capital losses correctly.

You know. There's a fucking correct way to lose money and shit. what a fucking nightmare.

* * *

I'm trying to think about something. Well. It may have been possible that my. that the money I spent on the Meningitis Vaccine for college, would have been paid for by my employer health plan, but I'm not sure.

* * *






I'm still starting to think that I really need to limit the amount of time that I spend on Twitter. I really do. The time I spend on there is. I don't know. Time I could spend doing something else.

* * *

Notes: an IEP is an Individualized Education Program. It's a program that pertains specifically to Individuals with Disabilities 

* * *

So what do I have to think about right now? Well, I'm at the City of Arlington Main Library. I'm using the wi-fi connection to the Internet, and I'm basically blogging. There are a number of things that I need to get done, and I'm certain that I will get them done. One of the issues that has been on my mind has been whether or not to subscribe to an Internet connection service. I'm honestly. Using a metered Internet connection.

* * *

There are a number of people
writing stuff at their desks
and surfing the content available
everywhere that it is offered.

* * *

The main issues that are weighing on my mind right now are: getting into graduate school, paying for graduate school, paying back any student loans that I might accumulate while attending graduate school, completing graduate school without running out of cash and credit, and then finding employment sufficiently remunerative such that any student loans I have to pay back aren't excessively burdensome.

* * *

Even though I might be getting distracted. Or at least I feel like I'm getting distracted. It's possible that I'm getting more done than I think. What is one thing that I would like to get done? Well, complete another Copyright Registration. The issue here isn't time. It's money. I'm already stretched super thin in terms of money, and I really don't have any money to spend on pet projects, but in a way, when I say that, I know that I've spent more on lunches than. You know. Impulse purchases are issues too. you know. and I'm wasting money in one area or another, that should be better used in some other area.

* * *

This is probably a useless thing to point out, but I have a folder for links that I have used in the past, but, don't plan on using anytime soon, they may be specific in some way, like, a specific facebook page. I might not. i obviously don't need to bookmark facebook, but there may be a specific facebook page that i might want to book mark. anyway. i have a specific bookmarks folder for bookmarks that are kind of like that. super specific pages in. anyway. the situation there is that I had folders within my archived bookmark folders. i fixed that issue of having folders within my archived bookmarks folder for bookmarks of pages within websites that i want to bookmark, but the main website doesn't need to be bookmarked. stupid trivial issue.

* * *




































...

I'm going to attempt this again. I'm working on something. I have this idea. Some of these editorial choices are the most amazing attempts at a Magnum Opus that anyone can ever attempt, and yet, they are being marked as SPAM.

The SPAM policy can be used to remove any kind of content whatsoever, which is a nightmare, and, potentially a good thing as well.

* * *

From Twitter:

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13m
If the Druidic Council approves reimbursement for Marijuana, I want to submit medical expense reports for medicinal blowjobs. You wouldn't believe how therapeutic blowjobs can be. 

#pontifexmaximus
#DanishCookieUXorious

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
8h
Years ago I was at a bar and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian🐊🦖 conspiracy and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians🐙🦑, insectilians🦋🐞, or robotilians🤖🖥️.

#DanishCookieUXorious

* * *

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 47 was reported or flagged as a SPAM post, or to be in violation of BLOGGER SPAM guidelines. So I reedited it and submitted it for review so that it can be posted again in it's edited form. This is the edited version of the previous post:

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 47

This post has been edited as of 05/25/2022 11:42 AM after being reported as in Violation of Blogger Community standards

* * *

The main issues that are weighing on my mind right now are: getting into graduate school, paying for graduate school, paying back any student loans that I might accumulate while attending graduate school, completing graduate school without running out of cash and credit, and then finding employment sufficiently remunerative such that any student loans I have to pay back aren't excessively burdensome.

* * *

Even though I might be getting distracted. Or at least I feel like I'm getting distracted. It's possible that I'm getting more done than I think. What is one thing that I would like to get done? Well, complete another Copyright Registration. The issue here isn't time. It's money. I'm already stretched super thin in terms of money, and I really don't have any money to spend on pet projects, but in a way, when I say that, I know that I've spent more on lunches than. You know. Impulse purchases are issues too. you know. and I'm wasting money in one area or another, that should be better used in some other area.

* * *

This is probably a useless thing to point out, but I have a folder for links that I have used in the past, but, don't plan on using anytime soon, they may be specific in some way, like, a specific facebook page. I might not. i obviously don't need to bookmark facebook, but there may be a specific facebook page that i might want to book mark. anyway. i have a specific bookmarks folder for bookmarks that are kind of like that. super specific pages in. anyway. the situation there is that I had folders within my archived bookmark folders. i fixed that issue of having folders within my archived bookmarks folder for bookmarks of pages within websites that i want to bookmark, but the main website doesn't need to be bookmarked. stupid trivial issue.

* * *

Fuck. Let me think for a minute. Incessant distractions. There was something that I was thinking about. Okay. it's about the wash loss rule regarding stock trading. I wouldn't be worrying about this right now, however, I basically did not get. My unemployment insurance claim was not approved, or, disqualified, so I'm basically selling the shares I have in my Robinhood account to cover my current needs, and this also wouldn't be an issue, however, the current market prices of the shares I'm selling are below my cost-basis for the shares that I'm selling.

So I'm selling my fucking shares at a realized loss, and this has the potential to cause me to run afoul of the wash-sale rule in the event that I'm not realizing my capital losses correctly.

You know. There's a fucking correct way to lose money and shit. what a fucking nightmare.

* * *

I'm trying to think about something. Well. It may have been possible that my. that the money I spent on the Meningitis Vaccine for college, would have been paid for by my employer health plan, but I'm not sure.

* * *

What do I need to work on? Okay. I got distracted again. Transcribing notes. working on stuff for my twitter profile. I just can't believe how much time I've been spending on there. There was an Automated Profile, or an Automated Bot Re-Tweeter that caught my attention, and I found it interesting. I ended up experimenting with emojis for a while.

* * *

Thumbnail Choices:

Artists & Scientists: Samuel Finley Breese Morse

Bureaucrats & Legislators: Alexander Hamilton

Entrepreneurs & Magnates: Éleuthère Irénée du Pont de Nemours

Strategists & Tacticians: John Charles Frémont


Thumbnail Choices:

  Artists & Scientists: 
     Samuel Finley Breese Morse
  Bureaucrats & Legislators: 
     Alexander Hamilton
  Entrepreneurs & Magnates: 
     Éleuthère Irénée du Pont de Nemours
  Strategists & Tacticians: 
     John Charles Frémont

What else do I need to work on?

* * *

I really think that these mass tragedies are connected in some way. In a kind of Evil begets Evil kind of way.

* * *

I'm getting fucking distracted again. I had my Unemployment Benefits claim disqualified. My application to the University of Texas at Arlington is complete. I have a start date for work.

What do I need to work on?

* * *I'm trying to think. i think the reason that i get blocked. on twitter. is that if a person's tone is. i don't know. patronizing. or condescending. trivializing. or marginalizing. or snide or snarky. i'll usually adopt a similar tone. and it usually just pisses people off.

* * *

what the hell do I have to do? I have stay off twitter. I've only been blocked a hand full of times. I want to say three. I'm sure i've pissed everyone off. anyway. what i'm thinking about. going back to the completion of my graduate school application. is that. i am really fucking scared. i do have to take out student loans to get through school. and i know that i'll have to pay them back. This is really fucking scary. taking out student loans. and i'm not sure.

but i'm thinking that i really just need to be careful about it. going to graduate school is something that i've been wanting to do for a while. i might as well just do it, and take it as it comes.

* * *

There is a woman on twitter. who. i'm kind of trying to engage in dialogue with, but, i'm afraid that if i interact with her directly. and i say the wrong thing. she'll block me. i think that she's part of the UX debate. which i actually haven't really researched very much. i just sort of. post shit with the tag #UX, and say something.

* * *

From Twitter

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 14
... and, I guess in that vein, I guess I should no longer refer to my 7.5 inch Johnson as a form of currency, even though it is surely a 7.5 inch money maker!

#inflation #filipinodollar #filipinopeso #filipinodong #filipinowang #filipinorouble

* * *

Starting a new post. This may be blank for a few minutes.




Notes from Arlington, Texas # 47 (Revised & Edited)

This post has been edited as of 05/25/2022 11:42 AM after being reported as in Violation of Blogger Community standards


* * *

The main issues that are weighing on my mind right now are: getting into graduate school, paying for graduate school, paying back any student loans that I might accumulate while attending graduate school, completing graduate school without running out of cash and credit, and then finding employment sufficiently remunerative such that any student loans I have to pay back aren't excessively burdensome.

* * *

Even though I might be getting distracted. Or at least I feel like I'm getting distracted. It's possible that I'm getting more done than I think. What is one thing that I would like to get done? Well, complete another Copyright Registration. The issue here isn't time. It's money. I'm already stretched super thin in terms of money, and I really don't have any money to spend on pet projects, but in a way, when I say that, I know that I've spent more on lunches than. You know. Impulse purchases are issues too. you know. and I'm wasting money in one area or another, that should be better used in some other area.

* * *

This is probably a useless thing to point out, but I have a folder for links that I have used in the past, but, don't plan on using anytime soon, they may be specific in some way, like, a specific facebook page. I might not. i obviously don't need to bookmark facebook, but there may be a specific facebook page that i might want to book mark. anyway. i have a specific bookmarks folder for bookmarks that are kind of like that. super specific pages in. anyway. the situation there is that I had folders within my archived bookmark folders. i fixed that issue of having folders within my archived bookmarks folder for bookmarks of pages within websites that i want to bookmark, but the main website doesn't need to be bookmarked. stupid trivial issue.

* * *

Fuck. Let me think for a minute. Incessant distractions. There was something that I was thinking about. Okay. it's about the wash loss rule regarding stock trading. I wouldn't be worrying about this right now, however, I basically did not get. My unemployment insurance claim was not approved, or, disqualified, so I'm basically selling the shares I have in my Robinhood account to cover my current needs, and this also wouldn't be an issue, however, the current market prices of the shares I'm selling are below my cost-basis for the shares that I'm selling.

So I'm selling my fucking shares at a realized loss, and this has the potential to cause me to run afoul of the wash-sale rule in the event that I'm not realizing my capital losses correctly.

You know. There's a fucking correct way to lose money and shit. what a fucking nightmare.

* * *

I'm trying to think about something. Well. It may have been possible that my. that the money I spent on the Meningitis Vaccine for college, would have been paid for by my employer health plan, but I'm not sure.

* * *

What do I need to work on? Okay. I got distracted again. Transcribing notes. working on stuff for my twitter profile. I just can't believe how much time I've been spending on there. There was an Automated Profile, or an Automated Bot Re-Tweeter that caught my attention, and I found it interesting. I ended up experimenting with emojis for a while.

* * *

Thumbnail Choices:

Artists & Scientists: Samuel Finley Breese Morse

Bureaucrats & Legislators: Alexander Hamilton

Entrepreneurs & Magnates: Éleuthère Irénée du Pont de Nemours

Strategists & Tacticians: John Charles Frémont


Thumbnail Choices:

  Artists & Scientists: 
     Samuel Finley Breese Morse
  Bureaucrats & Legislators: 
     Alexander Hamilton
  Entrepreneurs & Magnates: 
     Éleuthère Irénée du Pont de Nemours
  Strategists & Tacticians: 
     John Charles Frémont

What else do I need to work on?

* * *

I really think that these mass tragedies are connected in some way. In a kind of Evil begets Evil kind of way.

* * *

I'm getting fucking distracted again. I had my Unemployment Benefits claim disqualified. My application to the University of Texas at Arlington is complete. I have a start date for work.

What do I need to work on?

* * *

I'm trying to think. i think the reason that i get blocked. on twitter. is that if a person's tone is. i don't know. patronizing. or condescending. trivializing. or marginalizing. or snide or snarky. i'll usually adopt a similar tone. and it usually just pisses people off.

* * *

what the hell do I have to do? I have stay off twitter. I've only been blocked a hand full of times. I want to say three. I'm sure i've pissed everyone off. anyway. what i'm thinking about. going back to the completion of my graduate school application. is that. i am really fucking scared. i do have to take out student loans to get through school. and i know that i'll have to pay them back. This is really fucking scary. taking out student loans. and i'm not sure.

but i'm thinking that i really just need to be careful about it. going to graduate school is something that i've been wanting to do for a while. i might as well just do it, and take it as it comes.

* * *

There is a woman on twitter. who. i'm kind of trying to engage in dialogue with, but, i'm afraid that if i interact with her directly. and i say the wrong thing. she'll block me. i think that she's part of the UX debate. which i actually haven't really researched very much. i just sort of. post shit with the tag #UX, and say something.

* * *





What do i have to do? It's seems that my UT Arlington application has been completed, and submitted to the admissions team. I'm incredibly nervous, however, I think I'll just reapply if I'm declined.


* * *


anyway. i'm broke now. so. gotta stop spending money. or. more money than i should be spending. i went out to eat. today is monday, so, nothing was too crowded. i felt bad about being angry the other day about how crowded everything was. even though i didn't take my anger out on anyone. i was just. grouchy. i guess. i guess i felt bad about feeling angry.
















* * *


what am i thinking about right now? spending too much money. again. but. in many cases. some of these things are things that i need. i need to calm down. what else? i might have an earlier than expected start date to work. so. that might work in my favor.


* * *


Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
43m
That guy wanted a whole. fucking. dollar.
for my student subscription. i offered
the old man 99 cents, but he wouldn't
budge a single american inch.


#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
44m
I honestly think that the reason Rupert Murdoch
bought MySpace was to stiff me out of my poems,
because I stiffed him on my Wall Street Journal:
Student Edition subscription fees.


#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
46m
I read somewhere that it's actually possible to: request
your file, or whatever, from any entity that collects
your data, and I think that the process is similar to a
Freedom of Information Act Request, but I never
got around to doing that.


#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
53m
I tried a number of different things to get my old MySpace
account back, including reactivating old email addresses,
but even that didn't work. and then I think I tried to find
my own Myspace page using some internet archive, that
didn't work either.


#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
4h
What do I remember about MySpace? well. I actually left my
page as Vanilla as possible, but I think that my MySpace
blog was kind of epic. In fact I've tried at least a few
times to track down my old MySpace Blogs.


#DanishCookieUXorious


Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
37m
I knew it! I was going to get in trouble for that poem.
Oh well, I guess I won't be freezing to death in St.
Petersburg this summer!


#VladimirPutin
#SergeiLavrov
#StateDept
#USDepartmentofState


https://mid.ru/ru/maps/us/1814243/


Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
16h
when every problem you've ever faced
is a matter of food and shelter, every
solution is a hammer and sickle


#liberatetheproletariat
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
16h
liberalism has hijacked the worker's
struggle with tertiary concerns of
gender and sexuality, ethnic and
sectarian concerns. it's bullshit.


#liberatetheproletariat
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
16h
when every problem you've ever faced
is a matter of food and shelter, every
solution is a hammer and sickle


#marxism


Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being
denied communion in accordance with canon law 915.
I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by
being baptized an acolyte of Christianity & Company
Incorporated, PLC (Société anonyme). so. You know.
It's like that.


* * *


what about school, well. there are a few things. i think. if i have to. if i have an opportunity to take elective courses. and supposing that i have the opportunity to take elective courses that are not specifically finance, or quantitative finance related. i think.


and i think that i tried to do this when i was trying to get enrolled at UMKC, was to study finance related topics. or topics that are i guess. or that i thought would by synergistic to finance. like project valuation and real estate valuation. i think that these were under civil engineering or urban planning, or one or the other or under real estate or whatever.


but um. i guess i would study other stuff related to valuation. software programming or coding or something. foreign languages. legal studies courses related to business and finance. economics and mathematics.


* * *


issues with social media stuff. well. i want to include dating apps and online dating stuff in general as part of social media. well. i get blocked. most of the time. and i mean blocked as in kind of a do-not-interact notification. so. in many ways this is kind of useless. blocking is something that i do to other people. and. it's honestly something that a lot of people do to me too. it's just the way it goes. we really don't have to interact with each other if we don't want to. mark as spam. block. mute. sequester. we all do it.


* * *


There was a thing where. I tried to rename my book marks. Boring stuff. but I want to get these to a kind of more manageable. kind of appearance.


* * *

List of S&P 500 companies - Wikipedia

* * *

Application

* * *

What else do I need to get done today? I need to apply for scholarships and shit. There's this kind of hang-up with UNLV. I was accepted, but never attended. I did intend to attend, but never attended. Anyway, I'm guessing that I would have a file with UNLV, but not a list of classes that I enrolled and withdrew from. and I think that I would have a student ID with UNLV, but I don't know how this whole business of transcripts would go.


* * *


I try to participate in survey responses as much as I can. I think. I think that it's important to cast my vote in whatever way I can, in whatever issue my vote is needed, even if it's just a question about how I'm using or interacting with a mobile app, or website.


* * *


but i don't really know if i really want to deal with ONEQ. There is really a whole lot of bull shit on a lot of these total market index funds, and i really don't want to deal with a lot of them. stupid. stupid. I know. there's just a lot of shitty ones on the index. zombie ticker symbols on the index. some of them never fall off the index. well. i don't know. a lot of them are garbage.


* * *


I did manage to take care of a few things with my old. With my 401(k). and that was kind of nice. I don't know. what else to do. there were a few student loan, student aid, and student grant related stuff for school. I don't recall. exactly what the deadline is for the application period. I want to say that it is 06/04/2022.


* * *


Fucking Twitter. I have to say off of there. There is one thing that is kind of cool. and. I guess I haven't kept up with it. but I did notice that ONEQ has a much lower share price than it had before. and. I looked it up, but there was a stock split for that ETF some time last year. thank god. really. some of these index ETFs have. they're kind of rolling with higher share prices than I would really like to deal with.


* * *

liberalism has hijacked the worker's
struggle with tertiary concerns of
gender and sexuality, ethnic and
sectarian concerns. it's bullshit.


#liberatetheproletariat


* * *

when every problem you've ever faced
is a matter of food and shelter, every
solution is a hammer and sickle


#liberatetheproletariat


* * *


fucking vladimir putin man come on stop slowing down my already slow as shit internet connection. you know that the west has been oppressing me my entire life. holding me down much in the same way that the west has held you down. i understand your anger. but. in compliance with all internet user agreements in the west. i do not condone your actions. nor do i support your behavior. vladimir. putin. anyway. remember. vladimir putin. one in ten is seven hundred and fifty million.

* * *


what the hell do i do about. fuck. what the hell do i do about this other content and stuff? there are a few things that i'm thinking about. about graduate school. in terms of electives. and how these electives can help me in other ways. fucking twitter. in many ways i think it better that i just stay off there. i need to learn a foreign language or something. maybe a few programming languages.


* * *


Kenneth Larot Yamat

@KennethLYamat
·8h

That 250 USD Meningitis vaccine better save me 25000 inflation adjusted USD in healthcare related expenses. #DanishCookieUXorious



Kenneth Larot Yamat

@KennethLYamat
·8h

That 250 USD Meningitis vaccine better save me 25000 inflation adjusted USD in healthcare related expenses. #DanishCookieUXorious


















Kenneth Larot Yamat

@KennethLYamat
·9h

What Bumble had that the other dating apps didn't was a lifetime subscription option: none of the Match Group products had one, so the only person in the Dating Industrial Complex who knows how to press the Net Present Value button works at Bumble INC. #DanishCookieUXorious


















Kenneth Larot Yamat

@KennethLYamat
·10h

What I liked about Bumble over the other dating apps was that it had a lifetime subscription option: none of the Match Group products had that, so the only person in the Dating Industrial Complex who know how to press the NPV button works at Bumble INC. #DanishCookieUXorious


* * *

there is really no way of knowing what the fuck is going on there. or. what the fuck the deal with that situation is. and. in many ways i have no interest in scratching beneath the surface on that one. it could be a kind of false flag kind of issue. i don't want to deal with it. or maybe. maybe an impersonator account or a kind of straw man account or a false flag account. if there is one thing that i would say to prospective asian mail immigrants to the united states. if i could warn other asian males about the united states. it's this. don't fucking come here. for me. i just felt like. i just feel like there isn't point in being here. don't come here. this place sucks. there is nothing here. maybe come out here if there is some opportunity or something. but. i want to say that there is no point in staying out here.


* * *



Kenneth Larot Yamat

@KennethLYamat
·10h

What I liked about Bumble over the other dating apps was that it had a lifetime subscription option: none of the Match Group products had that, so the only person in the Dating Industrial Complex who know how to press the NPV button works at Bumble. #DanishCookieUXorious


















Kenneth Larot Yamat

@KennethLYamat
·13h

A few years ago I was at the bar, and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian conspiracy, and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians, insectilians, or robotilians. #DanishCookieUXorious














Kenneth Larot Yamat

@KennethLYamat
·May 23






















Kenneth Larot Yamat

@KennethLYamat
·May 23






















Kenneth Larot Yamat

@KennethLYamat
·May 23

when every problem you've ever faced is a matter of food and shelter, every solution is a hammer and sickle #liberatetheproletariat


















Kenneth Larot Yamat

@KennethLYamat
·May 23

liberalism has hijacked the worker's struggle with tertiary concerns of gender and sexuality, ethnic and sectarian concerns. it's bullshit. #liberatetheproletariat


















Kenneth Larot Yamat

@KennethLYamat
·May 23

when every problem you've ever faced is a matter of food and shelter, every solution is a hammer and sickle #marxism


















Kenneth Larot Yamat

@KennethLYamat
·May 23

when every problem you've ever faced is a matter of food and shelter, every solution is a hammer and sickle #marxism


















Kenneth Larot Yamat

@KennethLYamat
·May 23

when every problem you've ever faced is a matter of food and shelter, every solution is a hammer and sickle #vladimirputin


















Kenneth Larot Yamat

@KennethLYamat
·May 23

when every problem you've ever faced is a matter of food and shelter, every solution is a hammer and sickle #liberatetheproletariat


















Kenneth Larot Yamat

@KennethLYamat
·May 22

I knew it! I was going to get in trouble for that poem. Oh well, I guess I won't be freezing to death in St. Petersburg this summer! #VladimirPutin #SergeiLavrov #StateDept #USDepartmentofState














The people on twitter are not real
kenneth. do not interact with them.
they are not real. leave them alone.

they are not real. all 
of them are bots
all of the people on 
twitter are a kind
of bot. many of them are 
a kind of zombie.

do not bother with them.

* * *

I think. I don't know what I spent
on dating app subscriptions.
in a lot of ways I think. people
can be assholes to each other.
and be proud of it for doing so.

* * *

What did I have trouble with today? It was just before the lunch hour, and every place I went to was so crowded. Panic and anxiety. Too many people, not enough space. Irritated. I know I don't live in a suburban town. I know I don't live in a rural area. Maybe once you are a farm kid, you are always a farm kid.

* * *

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 45

* * *

Working nights is just better for my personality. Or, I think my personality and lifestyle are just better suited for working nights. This new position that I accepted is during the day, and. I think that everything will be okay. I don't know how my college application will go, but. 

But I remember when I applied to UMKC, and I remember that most of the classes were after normal work hours, and that, working nights would have conflicted with the school schedule. My work schedule would have interfered with my school schedule. So I would have either had to switch to days or something.

I'm just stressed out and irritated.

* * *

I tried to get something to eat. It's day time on a Sunday. Everything is crowded and I'm just so pissed off.

* * *

I fucking hate being 
up during the day. 
It's too fucking busy. 
It's too fucking crowded.

* * *

Nightmares, but
nothing too serious.

* * *

Every person has its own agenda, I'm 
afraid of everyone I come across, looking 
in the mirror: wondering what I'm after.

#tercet
#haiku 

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
50m
I knew it! I was going to get in trouble for that poem. Oh well, I guess I won't be freezing to death in St. Petersburg this summer!

#VladimirPutin 
#SergeiLavrov
#StateDept
#USDepartmentofState

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
1h
I knew it, I was going to get in trouble for that poem. Oh well, I guess I won't be freezing to death in St. Petersberg this summer!

#VladimirPutin 
#SergeiLavrov

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
2h
and there were a lot
of covenants proscribing
what I could and couldn't

use it for: no danish 
stamps porn could be 
downloaded and so, 

I used it twice 
and then I 
sent it back.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
2h
and there were a lot
of covenants proscribing
what I could and couldn't

use it for: no danish 
stamps porn could be 
downloaded and so, 

I used it twice 
and then I 
sent it back.
Show this thread
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
2h
Product design and
user experience is 
literally not my job.

My previous employer
sent me a mac book pro
or something. I remember

a 1 finger maneuver and a
5 finger maneuver and
everything in between.

The pad itself was 
a button. The display 
fluid and three dimensional.




Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
Brass buttons on
a suede shirt with maroon 
flowers in a sequence

green vines knit the
floral pattern together,
a mandarin collar caresses

her neck, she reads a 
misogynistic tweet 
from an Asian guy.

Her icy eyes turn to me:
I'll pay for his impudence! 
Time for discipline!




Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
A young woman sobs
walking circles in the courtyard
in a short tight dress with

a pattern like a sherbet
swirl, her boyfriend follows
behind her, cut short, a lot

of cleavage, cut high, a lot of 
thigh, a sweet mossy scent: 
what does her boyfriend want?

#haiku
#tercet
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
A young woman sobs
walking circles in the courtyard
in a short tight dress with

a pattern like a sherbet
swirl, her boyfriend follows
behind her, cut short, a lot

of cleavage, cut high, a lot of 
thigh, she has a sweet mossy scent what does her boyfriend want?

#haiku
#tercet
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
4h
Sunday around noon,
it's lunchtime and
I'm hungry: noom! noom!

Every place is full and busy,
I head home, the neighbors
are fucking, the wall: boom! boom!

#haiku
#tercet
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 21
Every person has 
its own agenda, I'm 
afraid of everyone I 

come across, I look at 
the mirror: what does 
my reflection want?

#tercet
#haiku

* * *

A few more days before I start
the new position.
in some ways I'm worried.
and I need to get all this stuff
done for school

* * *

I did get most of the stuff
that I needed for school done.
and 
I got most of the things
that I needed done
for my unemployment claim.

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 21
A scone: triangular, 
arrow down,
a cleft, savory and sweet,

vanilla, granular,
blueberry, cherry, 
taste the mango.

#haiku
#tercet
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 21
Every person has its own agenda, I'm 
afraid of everyone I come across, I look at 
the mirror: what does my reflection want?

#tercet
#haiku
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 21
Every person has its own agenda, I'm 
afraid of everyone I come across, looking 
in the mirror: wondering what I'm after.

#tercet
#haiku
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 21
Vaginal intercourse is a scam, a 
conspiracy; liquidate your position sticking 
your funds in assets, not money pits.

#haiku 
#tercet
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 21
Vaginal intercourse is a scam, a 
conspiracy; liquidate your position and 
put the funds into assets, not money pits.

#haiku 
#tercet

* * *

kind of just

generally irritated
earlier today.
and I think that

* * *

it

I think that I mentioned it before.
how it was just too crowded
around town.

* * *

these were things
there are aspects
about the culture
wars that we really
shouldn't be getting

into. waste of time
or. it just really doesn't

seem to be out fight.

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 21
It's hotter and more humid in
my apartment than it is outside, 
so I leave the balcony window open.

#tercet
#haiku
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 21
Swimmers in the pool, chatting 
and splashing, enjoying themselves, 
having fun, having a good time.

#haiku
#tercet
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 21
It's hot, hotter and more humid
In my apartment than outside;
I leave the balcony window open.

#tercet
#haiku
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 21
It's hot. Hotter and more humid
In my apartment than outside.
I leave the balcony window open.

#tercet
#haiku
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 21
Dirty pet owning Canadians 
are responsible for the Monkey 
Pox - 22 Outbreak? Figures.

#haiku
#coronavirus
#covid19
#monkeypox22
#vladimirputin
#PandemicPestilencePlauge
#1in10is750million

* * *

I knew that he would
put me on his list of
mother-fuckers that would
be personally fucked by the
thing a ma jig!

bastard.

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 21
Dirty pet owning Canadians 
are responsible for the Monkey 
Pox - 22 Outbreak? Figures.

#haiku
#coronavirus
#covid19
#monkeypox22
#vladimirputin
#PandemicPestilencePlauge
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 21
Dirty pet owning Canadians 
are responsible for the Monkey 
Pox - 22 Outbreak? Figures.

#haiku
#coronavirus
#covid19
#monkeypox22
#vladimirputin
#NIAID
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 21
Dirty pet owning Canadians 
are responsible for the Monkey 
Pox - 22 Outbreak? Figures.

#haiku
#coronavirus
#covid19
#monkeypox22
#vladimirputin
#anthonyfauci
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 21
Dirty pet owning Canadians 
are responsible for the Monkey 
Pox - 22 Outbreak? Figures.

#haiku
#coronavirus
#covid19
#monkeypox22
#vladimirputin
#CDC
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 21
Dirty pet owning Canadians 
are responsible for the Monkey 
Pox - 22 Outbreak? Figures.

#haiku
#coronavirus
#covid19
#monkeypox22
#vladimirputin
#WHO



Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 21
Dirty pet owning Canadians 
are responsible for the Monkey 
Pox - 22 Outbreak? Figures.

#haiku
#coronavirus
#covid19
#monkeypox22
#vladimirputin
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 21
Nancy, I wouldn't even 
be bothered by being denied 
communion in accordance with 

* * *

maybe these are 
pork buns and your
hair is tied back in a bun.

* * *

ADM
ADP
AF3
MMM
CBRE

Shopping List
Scouring Pads
Noodles
Rice
Bandages
adhesive bandages

is this covered by the employer 
sponsored tuition reimbursement plan

* * *

start date and end dates

times

start date and end dates

Friday change check in times

check out times

online for five to six months
online for 5 - 6 months

may 9th may ninth

October 5th fifth

live training 

* * *

There are stuffs

networking network and ethical hacking

certificate cybersecurity 

* * *

12 weeks course information security

online

virtual classroom

attend class breaks lunch 

need to get an internet connection
or wi-fi connection

break to break access to

instructor contact daily

Monday Tuesday

highspeed internet maximum

connection give 100% one-hundred percent tuition 50-50 fifty-fifty

50/50 split

100 percent nothing out of pocket for me to pay.

* * *

canon law 915. I was 
Excommunicated from the Holy 
See by being christened as a cultist of 

Christianity & Co. Inc.
PLC Société Anonyme. so. You 
know. It's like that.

#haiku
#tercet
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 21
Nancy, I wouldn't even 
be bothered by being denied 
communion in accordance with 

canon law 915. I was 
 Excommunicated from the Holy 
See by being baptized as a cultist of 

Christianity & Co. Inc.
PLC Société Anonyme. so. You 
know. It's like that.

#haiku
#tercet


Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 21
Every person has its own agenda, I'm 
afraid of everyone I come across, I look at 
the mirror: what does my reflection want?

#tercet
#haiku
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 21
Every person has its own agenda, I'm 
afraid of everyone I come across, looking 
in the mirror: wondering what I'm after.

#tercet
#haiku
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 21
Vaginal intercourse is a scam, a 
conspiracy; liquidate your position sticking 
your funds in assets, not money pits.

#haiku 
#tercet
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 21
Vaginal intercourse is a scam, a 
conspiracy; liquidate your position and 
put the funds into assets, not money pits.

#haiku 
#tercet

* * *

You are
1 obsessed and this
LOVE angry at the way 416 I = 9 is not where
the things
that I could think of . the oranges that have 2
Been at the front of the 
L = 1 should go and think of 2
back of the oranges and fruits cannot be 3
think of how these things go and those things F = 6
4 and I'm not happy of those things

Gi taste how the coffee is loser ville love to the 2 = 7 
E = 5 this is the orange and you are the lemonade 
#kristinS = 19 I'm honestly sick of this and here are
the stamps that I promised to send yoy and these T = 20

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
35m
I knew it! I was going to get in trouble for that poem. Oh well, I guess I won't be freezing to death in St. Petersburg this summer!

#VladimirPutin 
#SergeiLavrov
#StateDept
#USDepartmentofState

* * *

Look up with word or phrase reply guys

I think. that I

I did do maybe three reply guy things.
I think. it was something about a jaw screen shot
and the second one was a thing about
the twitter buy out

but in a way
with the twitter comment that I replied to

she seemed patronizing toward
marginalized groups.
or so. i guess i was being trivializing in
my response about
what i perceived as my own
marginalization.

in both cases the women i twittered responses
to blocked me.

i don't really think that
interacting with other people on
social media is
really

i don't think that it has any kind of value

it's a waste of time
and i think
i think i really should stay off twitter.

waste of time
it doesn't really do anything for me.
it doesn't help me in any way

it doesn't exactly advance the things I want
or whatever.

* * *

Every person has its own agenda, I'm 
afraid of everyone I come across, I look at 
the mirror: what does my reflection want?

#tercet
#haiku

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
36s
Every person has its own agenda, I'm 
afraid of everyone I come across, looking 
in the mirror: wondering what I'm after.

#tercet
#haiku
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
2h
Vaginal intercourse is a scam, a 
conspiracy; liquidate your position sticking 
your funds in assets, not money pits.

#haiku 
#tercet

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
2h
Vaginal intercourse is a scam, a 
conspiracy; liquidate your position and 
put the funds into assets, not money pits.

#haiku 
#tercet
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
It's hotter and more humid in
my apartment than it is outside, 
so I leave the balcony window open.

#tercet
#haiku
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
Swimmers in the pool, chatting 
and splashing, enjoying themselves, 
having fun, having a good time.

#haiku
#tercet
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
4h
It's hot, hotter and more humid
In my apartment than outside;
I leave the balcony window open.

#tercet
#haiku
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
4h
It's hot. Hotter and more humid
In my apartment than outside.
I leave the balcony window open.

#tercet
#haiku

* * *

Another day. I don't think that I waste a mountain of time on Twitter, but, sometimes I do.

* * *

I think that most of it is in fact done. I'm thinking about the due date for all of this. I could have sworn I put it all on my calendar before. I'll check again.

* * *

Maybe my progress isn't too horrible. I might be further along that I realize.

* * *

impella - ventricular device - 

* * *

Swimmers in the pool, chatting
and splashing, enjoying themselves,
having fun, having a good time.

#haiku
#tercet

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
7m
Vaginal intercourse is a scam, a 
conspiracy; liquidate your position sticking 
your funds in assets, not money pits.

* * *

There are times when I just feel so fucking angry. and I don't know why. or I can describe the reason why. or the reason is hidden somewhere in the back of my mind. repressed. Sometimes I feel unhappy, and it isn't clear to me why. I don't know why. and I can't describe the reason. it's somewhere in the back of my mind. somewhere. repressed. I don't know why. angry or unhappy for one reason or another somewhere. hard to explain or hard to pinpoint the reason.

* * *

#haiku 
#tercet
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

* * *

I was reading remarks made by Justice Clarence Thomas's about how the Rehnquist Court differed from the Robert's Court, and, I think Justice Clarence Thomas takes the position that the Rehnquist Court was more inspiring, or, more relevant to the general public than the Robert's court, and that the workplace dynamic between Justices during the Rehnquist court exhibited more camaraderie than during the Robert's Court.

I remember reading somewhere that the Robert's Court has spent most of its time on cases involving commerce or business or whatever, and, most of those cases are 9-0 unanimous decisions. Like boring shit that only the .001% of the population really cares about.

and then I think, the other thing that Justice Clarence Thomas pointed out, he seemed to tie gun-control or gun-rights with abortion-control or abortion-rights. and I think the point of his remark is that: conservatism is kind of a package deal. if your a conservative, you have a specific set of views regarding both the gun and the abortion debates. and. for me. i don't know if i'll always agree with that.

i've always thought of myself as a conservative, but sometimes when I really think about it. i'm kind of liberal. i'm kind of a liberal. but i also think. that it also kind of depends upon who i'm being compared with. i think i am conservative compared with. you know. a hell of a lot of liberals out there.

* * *
·
8m
Vaginal intercourse is a scam, a 
conspiracy; liquidate your position and 
put the funds into assets, not money pits.

#haiku 
#tercet
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
14m
It's hotter and more humid in
my apartment than it is outside, 
so I leave the balcony window open.

#tercet
#haiku
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
29m
Swimmers in the pool, chatting 
and splashing, enjoying themselves, 
having fun, having a good time.

#haiku
#tercet
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
2h
It's hot, hotter and more humid
In my apartment than outside;
I leave the balcony window open.

#tercet
#haiku

* * *




Nancy, I wouldn't even
be bothered by being denied
communion in accordance with

canon law 915. I was
Excommunicated from the Holy
See by being christened as a cultist of

Christianity & Co. Inc.
PLC Société Anonyme. so. You
know. It's like that.

#haiku
#tercet

* * * 

Nancy, I wouldn't even
be bothered by being denied
communion in accordance with


canon law 915. I was
Excommunicated from the Holy
See by being baptized as a cultist of


Christianity & Co. Inc.
PLC Société Anonyme. so. You
know. It's like that.


#haiku
#tercet

I'm going to call it a night. Not that I really got all that much done. Really. I have this thing. and I really remember. One of my college professors. Warned me. About excessive blogging. He warned me.



Fucking annoying. Stupid.

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 43

Cracks in the concrete of the 
patio of the balcony. I'm always 
out there, yet hardly notice.

#tercet
#haiku

An opossum walks around
the courtyard as though it
were a cat looking for tuna.

#tercet
#haiku

Cracks in the concrete of the 
patio of the balcony. I'm always 
out there, yet hardly notice.

#tercet
#haiku

An opossum walks around
the courtyard as though it
were a cat looking for tuna.

#tercet
#haiku

The air is cool and dry
the night is almost at it's end
tomorrow is a new day

#haiku
#tercet

Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even 
be bothered by being denied 
communion in accordance with 

canon law 915. I was actually
 Excommunicated from the Holy 
See by being baptized as a cultist of 

Christianity & Company Incorporated, 
PLC Société anonyme. so. You 
know. It's like that.

#haiku
#tercet


Cracks in the concrete of the 
patio of the balcony. I'm always 
out there, yet hardly notice.

#tercet
#haikuCracks in the concrete of the 
patio of the balcony. I'm always 
out there, yet hardly notice.

#tercet
#haikuCracks in the concrete of the 
patio of the balcony. I'm always 
out there, yet hardly notice.

#tercet
#haikuCracks in the concrete of the 
patio of the balcony. I'm always 
out there, yet hardly notice.

#tercet
#haikuCracks in the concrete of the 
patio of the balcony. I'm always 
out there, yet hardly notice.

#tercet
#haikuCracks in the concrete of the 
patio of the balcony. I'm always 
out there, yet hardly notice.

#tercet
#haikuCracks in the concrete of the 
patio of the balcony. I'm always 
out there, yet hardly notice.

#tercet
#haikuCracks in the concrete of the 
patio of the balcony. I'm always 
out there, yet hardly notice.

#tercet
#haiku






Cracks in the concrete of the patio of the balcony. I'm always out there, yet hardly notice.#tercet
#haiku


Cracks in the concrete of the 
patio of the balcony. 
I'm always out there, yet 
hardly notice. #tercet #haiku




Another set of notes starts here


* * *
An opossum walks around
the courtyard as though it
were a cat looking for tuna.

#tercet
#haiku

* * *


The air is cool and dry the night is almost at it's end tomorrow is a new day #haiku #tercet


* * *
My electricity bill was almost 9.00 fucking dollars. I guess that isn't a huge amount of money.

* * *

Some of the tweets on twitter are incomprehensible, and I've realized that. Yeah, I should just focus on writing poems, really.

* * *

The air is cool and dry
the night is almost at it's end
tomorrow is a new day


#haiku
#tercet


* * *

I really have to try to stay off twitter. I have to try not to get too caught up in the twitter discussions. This is a major time-drain considering that. I really have no effect on any of the situations that I tweet about. I'm going to focus strictly on the things that matter to me.

* * *
* * *

Alexander Pushkin

* * *

Alexander Peresvet

* * *
Well, there were a few things. One is that I got my meningitis vaccine. Fucking expensive. Really fucking expensive. I paid out of pocket. Really fucking expensive. Jesus. I don't really know.

* * *


ÞȲ


ƿȲ
DY


Ʉ Ѵ
Ɏ


Ж


Ѯ


* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3s
Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being baptized an acolyte of Christianity & Company Incorporated, PLC. so. You know. It's like that.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

* * *

Too many fucking distractions

* * *
·
5m
Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being baptized an acolyte of Christianity & Co. Inc, PLC. so. You know. It's like that.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

* * *

What I have to think about is this: Should I be stressed out? or not?

* * *

Anyway, There really isn't any point.

* * *
·
42m
Okay: Twitter Blue or Twitter for Professionals? Here's the thing: there is a Twitter Parody Policy for Professional Accounts, and I've never figured this out, how is a factious remarks focused account different from parody account? and at what point have I crossed the line?
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
2h
The Alexander Peresvet laser weapon is named after Paris Alexander, the Trojan Prince who, resembling a well known actor, had a laser sharp look that caused uteruses to tremble in ecstasy and queef with exalted delight.


* * *

Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being baptized an acolyte of Christianity & Company Incorporated, PLC (Société anonyme). so. You know. It's like that.

* * *

Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being baptized an acolyte of Christianity & Company Incorporated, PLC (Société anonyme). so. You know. It's like that.

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
42m
Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being baptized as a cultist of Christianity & Company Incorporated, PLC Société anonyme. so. You know. It's like that.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
49m
Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being baptized an acolyte of Christianity & Company Incorporated, PLC (Société anonyme). so. You know. It's like that.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
51m
Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being baptized an acolyte of Christianity & Company Incorporated, PLC. so. You know. It's like that.

* * *



Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
58m
Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being baptized an acolyte of Christianity & Co. Inc, PLC. so. You know. It's like that.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
1h
Okay: Twitter Blue or Twitter for Professionals? Here's the thing: there is a Twitter Parody Policy for Professional Accounts, and I've never figured this out, how is a factious remarks focused account different from parody account? and at what point have I crossed the line?


* * *






Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
3h
The Alexander Peresvet laser weapon is named after Paris Alexander, the Trojan Prince who, resembling a well known actor, had a laser sharp look that caused uteruses to tremble in ecstasy and queef with exalted delight.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
4h
The best way for Finland and Sweden to get an inch in on Erdogan is by challenging him to a game of Bakugan, and winning, and that's Bakugan, not backgammon.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
4h
The best way for Finland and Sweden to earn the respect of Erdogan is by challenging him to a game of Bakugan, and winning, and that's Bakugan, not backgammon.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
4h
The best way for Finland and Sweden earn the respect of Erdogan is by challenging him to a game of Bakugan, and winning, and that's Bakugan, not backgammon.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
4h
The best way for Finland and Sweden earn the respect of Erdogan, is by challenging him to a game of Bakugan, and winning. and that's Bakugan, not backgammon.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
4h
The best way for Finland and Sweden to placate Erdogan, is by challenging him to a game of Bakugan, and winning. and that's Bakugan, not backgammon.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
10h
Vaginal intercourse is a scam, and a conspiracy. Whenever you want to liquidate your position, you want to put the funds into different assets, not different money pits.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
10h
Vaginal intercourse is a scam, and a conspiracy.


* * *






* * *


















Objectives:

Copyrights:         innocuous posts 
                            Letters from Sanford Street
                            #DanishCookieUxorious
                            Notes from Arlington, Texas

Patents:                Fermentation Apparatus
                             Distillation Apparatus

Trademarks:        Chestnut + Hazel
                            Chestnut & Hazel
                            Chestnut and Hazel

Research:            Electives
                            Patent and Trademark Process
                            Selling Stuff Online / E-Commerce / Contemporary Verbiage of the Same

Tasks:                  Clean Up Google Photos

* * *

Could I do certain things without going back to college? sure, but, I have no idea how I would do them.

* * *

|| = ||    |||||   |||| ∥  ∥  ∥
 
* * *

IxD = Interaction Design, from this diagram, it looks like it's part of the overall User Experience design process. or something.

Charles Babbage = computer mechanical computer calculator calculates addition and subtraction

|| = A Character denoting parallel lines

open access = SPARC / FAIR / Creative Commons / has to do with copyright licensing / or some kind of principles related to research and access to copyrighted materials.

stock photographs = 

* * *
What the hell was I just now thinking about doing. continue cleaning up and editing the blog. oh I remember. Clean out google photos.

* * *

There was something that I needed to do, or that I was thinking of doing tomorrow, but for some reason it just slipped my mind. / #DanishCookieUXorious / I'm not going to stylize the lettering the way she does.

* * *

What else do I need to do? Well, as far as the Blog goes: I think that I'm going to Archive anything that has already been submitted for copyright registration. So. the reflections from chestnut street series. when I come across those posts. I'll re-title them as archived content. or whatever.

* * *

The following is an old poem of mine that I wrote a while back. This is from the Chestnut + Hazel archive, and I honestly found it very funny, but, also very sad and depressing as well. I don't know what I was thinking about when I wrote this poem. I really don't. I really think that it's funny. Right now I'm working on just cleaning up my blog and that's pretty much it.

Porn Videos

I'm thinking about creating a new genre of adult films.
Basically they will involve normeenas and gorblanas
engaging in shorblanification of their adamantios moogies.

It will be so nasty, that search engines will not run ads
involving normeenas and gorblanas doing anything at
all, even regular stuff like fishing and flying kites because

The association that people will have with normeenas and
gorblanas will be inherently pornographic, and the acts that
they engage in will be so disgusting that there will even be

Congressional hearings, all on C-Span, discussing the prospect
of regulating the acts that normeenas and gorblanas engage
in. Senators will run on platforms to regulate the normeenas

and gorblanas. Judges will be appointed who are strictly
opposed to sexual relationships between normeenas and
gorlanas. Anti-miscegenation legislation will be on the dockets

of every legislative body to restrict how normeenas and
gorblanas interact. Adoption agencies will be prohibited
from facilitating the adoption of progeny from these unions.

No one will be able to adopt a normeena-gorblana child.
Normeena-gorblana children who are not adopted will grow
up on the streets, selling teleomarkinites and shamdoobies

to make ends meet. They will steal mammyonography from
the adult bookshops and resell them at the swap meet and
flea market and on amazon and ebay and craigslist and letgo.

The normeena-gorblana rights commission will fight the 
oppression of the people, but the commission's funding will
come primarily from the adult film industry, and they will

not be taken seriously, or they will be seen as perpetuation
the perversions of the normeena-gorblana fetishists. A new
political party will emerge to protect the normeenas, and a

separate party will emerge to protect the gorblanas, and new
adult films will feature dirty talk between the two parties and
hardcore magazine will be sold, but buyers will need a permit

from the decency agency in order to buy them. A test will be
administered to see whether or not a person qualifies, only the
most sane and normal people will be allowed to but these books.

* * *

Let me think, just wait for the stuff I want to do, and then. I just really don't want to sell anything out of my Robinhood account. I don't want to sell anything out of my Robinhood account, any of my hobbies have to come out of my paychecks, and not my investments.

* * *

What do I have to deal with. Look, in this case. It really just makes more sense to wait to do a number of things that I want to do. In the mean time. it makes more sense just to do what I need, just the minimum amount of shit I need to survive for the time being, rather than blow all my money trying to do something potentially fruitless.

* * *

Wait until next week to do anything. This is just fucking ridiculous. 

* * *

The smartest thing to do for a number of things, is just wait until I get paid. I really don't want to take any more money from my Robinhood account. I really don't. So what do I have to deal with? just a few bullshits. I can't waste any money. I've already been doing that this entire month.

* * * 

In a lot of ways I kind of have to wait until next week to do a number of things. Well, I don't have to wait until next week. I simply have to. Well. I should wait until next week.

* * *

What the hell should I be working on right now?

* * *

there is a kind of workshop here in the Library. It's kind of neat. there are a bunch of different things that you can use to make things. like arts and crafts and stuff.

* * *

mass emails / patents / chemists / verbiage and dialect localization / contingent upon occupation / professional or occupation based localization / cosmetics / pharmaceuticals / beverages / agriculture / munitions / AWS / DEI = Diversity Equity and Inclusion 

* * *

I need to buy envelopes. what else. I kind of need to buy a battery for my car key, but I'm not really sure I'm going to worry about that.

One thing that is kind of cool about my new place of work, is that it is buy the University of Texas at Arlington Research Institute. I want to describe the area I work in as a kind of Industrial Park.

The thing I kind of want to patent is. and I honestly. I really don't have anything going on with it right now. is some kind of fermentation apparatus, you know:

A fucking home brew beer maker bullshit thing.

I want to check this place out, the Research Institute. 

I um. have or had this idea of: Chestnut + Hazel Laboratories, or Chestnut + Hazel Prototyping, or Chestnut + Hazel Research and Development, or Chestnut + Hazel Designs.

* * *

I have this idea for something I want to patent. It's nothing super interesting. I want to say that whatever it is that I'm going to make is a mere incremental improvement over an existing product.

* * * 

There was something that I was going to work on, but I don't know what it was.

Trademark

Patent

* * *





It's hot, and I'm fucking tired. I went out to eat, just fish and chips like I usually eat when I go out to eat. What the hell was I thinking about? I have to drop off my mail at the post office.

* * *

What the hell do I have to do right now?

* * *

idea for a feature for customer relationship management application / vernacular localization / contingent upon occupation / professional or occupation based localization / for example / cosmetics / pharmaceuticals / beverages / agriculture / munitions / petrochemical / energy

* * *

idea for a feature for customer relationship management software or application / verbiage and dialect localization / contingent upon occupation / professional or occupation based localization / for example / cosmetics / pharmaceuticals / beverages / agriculture / munitions / petrochemical / energy

* * *

Objectives

Copyrights:         (x) #DanishCookieUXorious
                            (x) innocuous posts                         
                            Letters from Sanford Street
                            Notes from Arlington, Texas

Patents:               Envelope Design 

Trademarks:        Chestnut + Hazel
                            Chestnut & Hazel
                            Chestnut and Hazel

* * *

I'm glad the weekend is just a few hours away. it's hot.

* * *

I might be able to figure this out. I really think that I might be able to figure this out.

* * *

Okay. I think that I got it. I think I know what I have to do. 

Research:            Electives
                            Patent and Trademark Process

* * *

I have to look at this again.

* * *

What the hell do I have to do right now?

* * *

i'm thinking. I have a business. and I am a business owner. and I operate a business. It's called: Chestnut + Hazel. and it's an intellectual property business. and what i need to know is how to sell intellectual property.

i really don't need all this other information. I need to know how to sell copyrights.

* * *

what is the issue right now? it just feels like everything is falling apart. it really does. it really fucking does. and maybe. i'm responsible for all of this. and maybe. there were contributors.

* * *

I'm removing this idea. I'm thinking that. It would make more sense to patent an idea, and then sell the patent to a company that already has a business in place to market and distribute the product, rather than starting something from the ground up. It really makes more sense to approach it that way.

Selling Stuff Online / E-Commerce / Contemporary Verbiage of the Same

* * *

even though i'm making less money. i do have more time as a result, but this still feels like less time. or. it feels like it's not enough time. really. i just really hope that this. different trajectory that i'm taking actually gets me somewhere.

* * *

if i could explain my hesitance to spend any of my robinhood money it's this: like, my money is the only lifeboat i have. i can't beg other people for help. i would rather commit suicide. and i'm actually not even lying when i say that.

i would rather commit suicide than beg for help.

i'm just really sick of the non-stop difficulties that i face. it's like everything. every challenge i face forces me into some shitty ass corner. i'm hoping my shitty ass situation gets better. i'm sure it will improve, but i'm really facing shitty situations right now, and it's a fucking nightmare.

* * *

I really enjoy reading SPAM emails, but. right now. i really have no need whatsoever for no strings attached sexual encounters. even. even if these were actual offers of actual sexual encounters. that were actually. no. strings. attached.

aside from that. everything is a nightmare.

* * *

What else do I have to do?

* * *

Fermentation Apparatus
 Distillation Apparatus
Terrarium Contraption
Aquarium Contraption

* * *

Dealing with a number of difficulties at the moment. Everything is just. not very easy or straight-forward. everything is a nightmare. everything is diffuclt.

* * *

Google AdSense ad serving has been restricted on your site
Hello,
This message is to alert you that one of your sites is not currently in compliance with our AdSense Program policies and as a result, ad serving has been restricted on your site.
Ad serving has been restricted on: chestnutandhazel.com
Action required: If you have modified your site to be in compliance with our policies or you feel this restriction is in error, please visit the AdSense Policy Center to view this violation and request a review.
Current account status: Active
Restriction(s) explanation
"Adult: Sexual content":
Certain sources of advertising are restricted from appearing on content that:
contains nudity.
is sexually gratifying, sexually suggestive and/or intended to cause sexual arousal.
discusses sexual fetishes.
is about sexual entertainment.
promotes sexual merchandise.
facilitates affairs and/or sexual encounters.
provides advice regarding sexual performance.
promotes sexual enhancement medications or supplements.
Review the full restriction (including examples) in the Help Center.

Appeals
If you want to appeal this restriction, you can contact us via the AdSense Policy Center. Learn more about restricted ad serving.
Thanks for your cooperation.
Sincerely,
The Google AdSense Team

* * *

This was a Letter to the Editor submitted via the submissions gadget.

Hi,

A study found that 63 percent of people
(https://www.inc.com/minda-zetlin/63-percent-of-20-somethings-want-to-own-a-business.html)
in their 20s want to start a business. I think that’s great.

However, there’s a big difference between starting a business and starting
a successful business, and young people may not have the experience that
comes from years of working in a given industry to know what the signs of
trouble actually are.

I’d love to write about that for your website. I’ll put together an article
for young entrepreneurs with advice on how to turn their great idea into a
successful startup. I'd be happy to feature your website as well.

The article is completely complimentary. I have a great mentor, and I
simply want to pay it forward as much as I can.

Please let me know if you’re interested.

Thank you in advance!
Lucy Reed
lucy@gigmine.co

Regards,
Lucy Reed | lucy@gigmine.co

Note: This email was sent via the Contact Form gadget on
http://www.chestnutandhazel.com

* * *

[Chestnut + Hazel] New message received.

Blogger Contact Form <no-reply@blogger.com>
Mon, Jun 6, 12:31 AM (1 day ago)
to me, submissions

Hi,

A study found that 63 percent of people 
(https://www.inc.com/minda-zetlin/63-percent-of-20-somethings-want-to-own-a-business.html) 
in their 20s want to start a business. I think that’s great.

However, there’s a big difference between starting a business and starting 
a successful business, and young people may not have the experience that 
comes from years of working in a given industry to know what the signs of 
trouble actually are.

I’d love to write about that for your website. I’ll put together an article 
for young entrepreneurs with advice on how to turn their great idea into a 
successful startup. I'd be happy to feature your website as well.

The article is completely complimentary. I have a great mentor, and I 
simply want to pay it forward as much as I can.

Please let me know if you’re interested.

Thank you in advance!
Lucy Reed
lucy@gigmine.co

Regards,
Lucy Reed | lucy@gigmine.co

Note: This email was sent via the Contact Form gadget on 
http://www.chestnutandhazel.com


Kenneth Larot Yamat <submissions@chestnutandhazel.com>
Mon, Jun 6, 6:47 AM (1 day ago)
to Lucy

Greetings Lucy:

Sure, send me what you've got.

Sincerely,

Kenneth Larot Yamat

* * *

Yes! I was accepted to the University of Texas at Arlington! I figure the rest of this stuff out later. This will be awesome. Super awesome!

* * *

MFA = multi-factor authentication - I remember this meaning Master of Fine Arts

* * *

I was looking for something related to. I was trying to search for things re. I was trying to do a search for articles related to American Depository Receipts (ADRs) but what I was given was articles on Alternative Dispute Resolutions (ADR). I'll try this again later.

* * *

I want to register a copyright for danish cookie before i register innocuous posts

* * *

I changed my mind again, instead of using: #DanishCookieUxorious its going to be #DanishCookieUXorious

* * *

Need a computer with an optical drive - find out what is currently being used in terms of optical drives - figure out if they still exist.

compiled two sets of items that i'll register copyrights for when i get a chance.

* * *

megalodon shark - great white shark - killer whales - transient orcas - domestic orcas - may bifurcate into two species due to differences in orca culture - #danishcookieuxorious - as screenshots - as text - taschen - facebook album - pdf - screenshots - as a text file - encephelization quotient - brain weight to body weight however it's surface area adjusted - it's brain weigh to body weight and adjusted for surface area - emotional intelligence - speciaziation a sense of selfe consciousness - still angry about it - still angry about it and it's probably something i'll never let go of - i'm exaggerating - i don't know if there was something i was supposed to do - envelopes - charles babbage - open access academic journal - stock photograps - buy envelopes - reaserch and development tax credit - el castillo san felipe del morro san juan - digital marketing - scarface: need people like me point finger that's the bad guy - hot tub scene - computer optical drive large hard drive - donnie brasco someo ones going to get clipped gotta start earning - 

* * *

What gullible little shit
currently sucks upon your clit
- in re Horace via John Milton

* * *

Anyway. First issue is that I tried to transfer money from my Robinhood account, into my Citibank account, and I fat-fingered the transaction in the opposite direction. I sent money from my Citibank account to my Robinhood account. This is not a big deal, assuming I get paid this week.

* * *

What a pain in the neck. Stupid Spreadsheet. 

* * *

I bought a box of envelopes, and now I can't seem to find them.

* * *

I don't know what the hell to do about that. I was thinking about working on something right now. I don't remember. I don't. well. I do actually.

* * *

Objectives

    Copyrights:         innocuous posts 
                            Letters from Sanford Street
                            #DanishCookieUxorious
                            Notes from Arlington, Texas

    Patents:                Fermentation Apparatus
                             Distillation Apparatus

    Trademarks:        Chestnut + Hazel
                            Chestnut & Hazel
                            Chestnut and Hazel

    Research:            Electives
                            Patent and Trademark Process
                            Selling Stuff Online / E-Commerce / Contemporary Verbiage of the Same

    Tasks:                  Clean Up Google Photos

* * *

What the hell? these fucking things are jagged!

* * *



is there anything that I need to do? yes! okay. so I remember. i have to look at computers for school. i eventually bought a new one and I really like it, it's faster than my old one, and has more features and it's nice.
what the hell was it that i was thinking about? I was thinking about food, and how I don't really get enough to eat. I have been starving for over a year, and I am hungry.
is there anything that i need to do today? i checked my UTA email, but i don't think that i would have had a response over the weekend.

is there anything that I need to fucking do today? i spent most of the day goofing off. i stayed up late the previous night and I've hardly had any sleep. well. except for the fact that i slept for most of the day today. but before i slept most of the day today. i didn't have much sleep.
it's hot. and I'm tired. the Hot dog is mightier than the Kielbasa. hehehe.

the things i needed to look up were: aggregate loan limits / annual limits / and interest rate / that information turned out to be easiest to find in the master promissory note.

here's the thing. i remember reading this shit already. and the information i found was basically stuff that i really remember reading the first time / the issue was that i found it difficult to look up / shit / distractions / okay so i found the information i was looking for / and / it turned out to be information that i remember reading when i signed the master promissory note / what made me want to double check / i don't remember / some issue or another.

so i guess that turned out to be easier than I thought. so. what to do next?
i need to figure out how to find my pay stubs from work.
some of the things that
are made to be hard are
also easy to deal with when
you figure out how to deal with them.

but one thing that i found is that you can use your student loan money to purchase a computer.
So I figured out what the issue is. The easiest way to figure out what I was looking for, was to read the master promissory note.
The simplified version of the loan details. the button click. scroll around stuff. surprisingly. is actually more difficult for me to understand
I figured this out.

but I guess I tried. I did put
forth my best effort and it
didn't really pay off in the way
that I thought it would now.
and now it is something that
cost me a grip of money.

The more problems I face, the more adaptations I need to make. It's getting to be too much. sometimes. nightmare.
When I start to feel distracted. I start throwing things away.
I know how to deal with this: I have ear plugs.
what do I have to deal with? i really have to read about the student loans stuff.
Let's think. let's remember what happened today. i went to the restaurant to get something to eat, then i went to the library, it was too noisy, so, i figured i wouldn't get anything done, so i went back home, where I'm at right now.

What am I dealing with here? I tried to get stuff done at the library. Trying to figure out student loans is something of a headache, and requires quite a bit of concentration, but, there were just sort of a lot of distractions at the library. This is usually how it goes.

you can separate stuff you need now, from stuff you will eventually need over the following months. the now stuff you can take with you, the later stuff you can ship to yourself as needed at a later point in time.
since you make quilts you can probably ship most things in a bag, like just wrap whatever you want to ship in a quilt, put it in a bag, then ship it to your new residence.

One issue with banker boxes is that they really are kind of expensive in comparison to regular boxes. I think price vs utility can effect the way a person experiences a product.

I renewed my current lease about two months ago for another year, but for some reason I'm kind of always in panic mode. I bought banker boxes but they really aren't suitable for shipping even if decent for storage.

and you can't be the bad
one because you have been
so good to so many people.

anyway, Paul, I still haven't gotten over her after all these years. If you want to, you can meet me in Kansas, and we'll fight over her, fists only, as in: paper, scissors, rock. 
Dwight D. Eisenhower Presidential Library & Museum, 200 S E 4th St, Abilene, KS 67410

but I guess timing is everything, as a suitor, and as a progenitor. She never said anything to me about having a Paul, ever. I was working as a fry cook, my shirts covered in grease, day after day. Only thing she ever said was, was: "I've never seen such hideous shirts!"

there were other opportunities at the time, in fact, Ferdinand Marcos was offering a one way ticket to the bourgeoisie, fully funded by California Boy Ronald Regan himself! I couldn't do it though: my dick was just too fucking big! So, I went to Stalingrad instead!

then there were the times
that we went over to the 
side of the road to see the
roadside flowers and they
turned out to be very nice.

but um, I didn't know she met someone. Five kids? Lucky guy. Unfortunately for me, I was fighting the Wehrmacht in Stalingrad while Pretty Boy Pablo was flirting with the ladies!

Is being charged with a DUI the same as being credited with a DUI? I wonder if he'll ultimately be debited with a DUI? Do you have to be credited with a DUI before being Debited with a DUI? I've never had a DUI.

A Twitter catfish posts risqué photographs and 
actual perverts ask to meet up, sad truth: 
I tried that approach on 
Snapchat and it didn't seem 
to achieve anything, nothing!

No two days are alike
and every day brings new 
surprises and uncertainties.
Residents from the complex are 
swimming in the pool the weather 
is hot, the water is cool.
I think that I have a tendency
to say things that I shouldn't,
and once things are digital,

they're never forgotten:
let's hope that no one has been
reading these.

think about new things
to think about and new
thoughts that do not 
bore you to death.

I'm watching the ceiling fan
spin around and waft hot and
humid air around my room.

I think that I'm not
really interested in things
other than basics.

I'm not really a
leftist except for those times
when the ladies are.

well, I made it almost as far as Oklahoma City, OK. I don't think I'll make it to Abilene, KS. Let's just say you win, Paul, and you can keep Nancy! As for paper📜scissors ✂️rock 🥌, see attachment below: Rock!

I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

i don't really know what to 
do about work. I took some
overtime, but I'm at 2 write-ups
and now I'm on suspension
for the meantime. Jesus. things
are not going well for me.
who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.

I was trying to respond to #cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious you but you didn't seem to
catch on to me trying to write to you
trying to talk to you and trying to figure
out what you're looking for.

and you can send me a naughty
picture of your body and
I will enjoy looking at it
I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.

#cyberinsecurities are those things
that make me think that
Kenneth Larot Yamat
is the best of the best and
makes for a good @KennethLYamat
conversation· with someone new.
dated on May 30th when you
posted a new post.

I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.

A Twitter catfish posts risqué 
photographs and actual perverts
ask to meet up, sad truth: 

I tried that approach on 
Snapchat and it didn't seem 
to achieve anything, nothing!

I tried to get
something good for something
amazing, I sent to box of chocolates
and there was no response.

I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 

not having the same precepts that
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 

not having the same feelings that
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 

not having the same feelings that
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

I feel like less of a person
when we meet in-person
and I'm not as tall of a person
as you would be satisfied with.

the place turned into kind of a bad
place to be, filled with jerks and
self-absorbed punks and people
who basically do things that are
silly.

I feel like less of a person
when my vacations don't
meet your expectations of
what a vacation should be.

I feel like less of a person when
my occupation doesn't meet
your expectations of what an
occupation should be.

I want thoughts as 
complex as your thoughts
feelings as deep 
as your feelings
insecurities as trivial
as your insecurities
hobbies as bougie
as your hobbies
tastes as sophisticated 
as your tastes
and problems as 
first-world as yours

I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions you have, and for 

not having the same precepts
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 

not having the same precepts
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

Relocation:
I renewed my current lease about two months ago for another year, but for some reason I'm kind of always in panic mode. I bought banker boxes but they really aren't suitable for shipping even if decent for storage.

you ended up in a new town.
you ended up in a new city
and met people who were new
to you and they were all nice people.

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 39
What's up? Well. I bought a few lottery tickets. Not in the bizzare way i thought of and mentioned in a previous post. What i did was buy 5 near my apartment. And 3 near my work. And that's it. Buying lottery tickets has always seemed like a silly thing to do. I never win. Not the jackpot anyway.

Buying lottery tickets. Trying to get published. Both of these things seem like silly ideas to me. And neither of them have ever really worked.

I have this funny idea for a series of poems though.

innocuous post 40
Photo dump
i thought
of different
screenshots
stuff that
was really coll [cool] and
this is where you are

are you wearing panties right now?
because it smells nicer in here
that it does in any other place
i've ever been in my entire life.

the two straddles the following counties
caldwell county
clinton county
dekalb county
daviess county
but I wonder if I'm using the word 
straddles correctly? do you think
that I should be using the word BUTTER?
I WON'T USE THE WORD BUTTER!

Relocation:
I'm always prepared to relocate on short notice. I keep enough money on hand to pay early lease / utility termination fees. I keep things boxed intending to mail them to any potential new residential location.

I'm aware of the difference between patents and copyrights, but there isn't a LinkedIn section that allows me to list Copyrights, or Trademarks.
I think that LinkedIn should have a generalized Registered Intellectual Property Section.
the stuff you need now, you can take with you, and it won't cost anything above what you're already spending getting to your new place: whatever you're currently spending on gas or plane tickets.

you can separate stuff you need now, from stuff you will eventually need over the following months. the now stuff you can take with you, the later stuff you can ship to yourself as needed at a later point in time.

since you make quilts you can probably ship most things in a bag, like just wrap whatever you want to ship in a quilt, put it in a bag, then ship it to your new residence.
Relocation:
One issue with banker boxes is that they really are kind of expensive in comparison to regular boxes. I think price vs utility can effect the way a person experiences a product.
yeah, honestly, i'd just sell everything and buy new stuff when you get to your new city.
and think about this: since you are such an amazing craftswoman, you can probably get an Etsy premium, or creative-unique-cool-stuff premium for your stuff. and then just make new stuff when you get to your new place.

but in some ways. the easiest thing to do: it might be easiest just to sell whatever you aren't really emotionally attached to, and buy new stuff online using your new residence as the ship-to location
anyway, i don't know if you have any Danish Cookie scented quilts. or anything. but um. there might be a premium attached to that. i'd buy one, but i didn't see an OnlyFans link on your linktree.

there was something strange
going on in that place some of
the people were a total nightmare
and they were all the best people
most of them anyway.

and this is kind of why i'm somewhat insensitive to current events. there was actually a spike in mass shootings in the DFW area at gentlemen's clubs, and, i feel like i'm the only person who followed the issue.
A Twitter catfish posts risqué
photographs and actual perverts
ask to meet up, sad truth: 

I tried that approach on 
Snapchat and it didn't
accomplish anything, nothing!
I think that the Flying Dutchman should by: A.P. Møller – Mærsk A/S + Vale S.A. + PayPal Holdings, Inc. and do it before 2031, the Year of the Boar. Buying PayPal Holdings, Inc. should be called: The Reconquista.

I'm curious to know how you settled the logistical aspects of relocation: did you sell everything? intending just to buy new things in your new city?
I think that the Flying Dutchman should by: A.P. Møller – Mærsk A/S + Vale S.A. + PayPal Holdings, Inc. and do it before 2031, the Year of the Boar. Buying PayPal Holdings, Inc. should be called: The Reconquista.
A Twitter catfish posts risqué 
photographs  and actual perverts 
ask to meet up, data driven results: 

I tried macking ladies approach on 
Snapchat and after macking 100
beezies I liquidated zero peezies!

I'm trying to think about what
really needs to be done in order
for me to figure this out
more work and a new role and
stuff.

A Twitter catfish posts risqué 
photographs  and actual perverts 
ask to meet up, sad truth: 

I tried macking ladies approach on 
Snapchat and it didn't seem 
to achieve anything, nothing!
In the CCP uses the Yuan (¥) or the Kublai Khan Dollar, the USA uses the USD ($), or, the Ameri Khan Dollar!

A dress from second-hand 
store fabric that you made: I 
would like first-hand experience 
pulling it off your body!

a phony Twitter catfish posts risqué 
photographs and actual perverts 
ask to meet up, as for me? it's never 
worked. data driven results: 

i tried macking numerous ladies on 
Snapchat and after macking 100
beezies I liquidated zero peezies!

it didn't really matter at that point because
you were already kind of established and
had things that you could and couldn't do.

I think the Flying Dutchman should buy: A.P. Møller – Mærsk A/S + Vale S.A. + PayPal Holdings, Inc. and do it before 2031, the Year of the Boar. The Acquisition of PayPal Holdings, Inc. should be called: The Reconquista.

I'm serious; I'm going to make an envelope called: Danish Cookie Scented Envelopes! What other woman in the Milky Way Galaxy will have an envelope patent named after her?
I think I just got some inspiration.

So I think of the # danishcookieuxorious series as being everything from the end of # putinpullout! to this exact tweet. and i'll register a copyright for # danishcookieuxorious, and then start using some other hashtag.

and then I'm going to copyright the lyrics to song titled: "I'm sorry Ms. Jensen, I'm actually not even lying about my intentions."

in addition to all of that: I'm also going to file a patent for the box that the envelopes are sold in, and the patent is going to be filed as: Danish Cookie Flavored Envelope Scented Boxes.
and I'm also going to file a patent for an envelope called: Danish Cookie Flavored Envelopes! and these won't be self-sealing, you'll have to lick and taste these envelopes!
search engine query: is there anyone doing business as: undressing sluts who're funny? and, am I a slut who's funny? also, is the word: slut, a gender-neutral word? is the word: slut, a gender-neutral pronoun?

innocuous post 41
Good lord. I don't want to do any online dating crap. I really don't. My apartment isnt really well suited for having guests over. I dont have a TV. I don't have a bed. Or a couch. I don't have an internet connection either. I just use my fucking phone. And honestly. I don't want anyone moving in with me either.

I don't want a bed. Or a couch. Or a tv. Or a fucking internet connection.
these are anges of clorishallia
the dordeelians of the sheelasee
tofreenolagonia

innocuous post 42
i really struggled with being. kind of. in a state of emotional despair this morning. this is one of those things. where. i know this goes away after a while. but it's never definite as to when it goes away.

Dating profile deletion
I recently purchased the six month A-List 
package for okcupid, and I'm already 
thinking about mothballing this account.
I don't seem to have much success meeting 
people, and I'm not very interested in having 
long drawn out internet conversations.

I don't anticipate using online dating websites much longer.

innocuous post 43
any clothes
hardly wear
and women who
including naked women
that i am looking at
with all the stuff
my data

wasting
that i am 
i think

i don't know what the future holds. not really.
i don't know what's going to come for me in
the next few weeks. I really don't know.

some of #undressingslutswhorefunny
the women there are really funny and 
they say some of  the silliest things I
can think of a person saying. I #searchenginequery
was looking for something new and
for some reason I couldn't find it. I'm serious
things are starting to fall apart for me.

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 37
somewhere in the ancient fortress town called
fort worth there is a winning lottery
ticket waiting to be purchased from bald
man number eight fourteen, he's soldering

a medieval random number picker
known as The Dart Board of Elysium 
which went downward through history, sticker
covered and glued with glitter and gypsum

to cover a crack in it's backside, and here
today, upon the bald man's desk, it sits,
waiting to reunite the forest's deer
with the savannah's antelope, which pits.

fuck this. the poem is fucking stupid.
i would much rather go right back to bed.

like where the fuck was I going to go
with that deer and antelope shit? who knows?

I was just thinking like. i have three lines 
left and i don't know where to take this damn
metaphor, dumb ass deer, dumb ass lions
stupid fucking dart board glued with green ham

and orange eggs. fuck. i had tacos once 
more today. glorious and crispy ones.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 5:29 PM 

search engine query / is there anyone doing business as / undressing sluts who're funny / and / am I a slut / who's funny / also, is the word / slut / a gender-neutral word? / and / is the word / slut / a gender-neutral pronoun? #undressingslutswhorefunny #searchenginequery but where are they they seem to think about new things. they usually have a whole bunch of new ideas and approaches to life and learning and life and living.

anyway. due to bugetary. and. uh. cash-flow issues. i really haven't ended the # DanishCookieUXorious series yet. in fact. i'll have to file a single copyright for my innocuous posts series, and the # DanishCookieUXorious series in a single submission. #DanishCookieUXorious I shouldn't get to worried about this because there are people who do in fact have it worse that I do, but they were hit by eighteen wheelers.

I think of iteration in engineering
as being similar to evolution in biology
one benefit to smaller teams and individualized
development projects is that the the iterations

can progress in isolation, and the products created
iterate divergent from a kind of mainstream, 
most of the time i only talk to my Weiner 
because my ball sack won't listen to me.
listen to me very carefully you Danish Cookie! 
if anyone suggests that my penis is a single centimeter 
plus or minus seven point five inches they're making a 
defamatory remark: anyone who has licked my 
testicles will provide testimony, under oath.
and I'm kind of ticked off by so many of the
other things there. they irritate me a whole lot.

it's really a strange thing when a guy spends some time alone with his weiner, has a conversation with it, and finds out he and his weiner were both born on exactly the same day.

if you ever develop a fondness for me, Danish Cookie, I want to be called: Phallus Photograph 9000, a penis with whom I share a birthday.

i have this idea for a new element of the bureaucracy: the delegation deliberation committee, where a group of senior members of the leadership clan argue over which junior subordinate assumes the most glorious tasks in future of history.

i have this idea for a new element of the bureaucracy: the delegation deliberation committee, where a group of senior members of the leadership clan decide which junior subordinate assumes the most glorious tasks in future of history.
if you ever develop a fondness for me, Danish Cookie, I want to be called: Phallus Photograph 9000, a penis with whom I share a birthday.
listen to me very carefully you Danish Cookie! if anyone suggests that my penis is a single centimeter plus or minus seven point five inches they're making a defamatory remark: anyone who has licked my penis will provide testimony, under oath.

anyway. due to bugetary. and. uh. cash-flow issues. i really haven't ended the # DanishCookieUXorious series yet. in fact. i'll have to file a single copyright for my innocuous posts series, and the # DanishCookieUXorious series in a single submission. 

search engine query: is there anyone doing business as: undressing sluts who're funny? and, am I a slut who's funny? also, is the word: slut, a gender-neutral word? is the word: slut, a gender-neutral pronoun?

#undressingslutswhorefunny some of the people take all of
#searchenginequery their materials and make new things out
of them and they seem to think that the women, who are funny.

Search Engine Query: has anyone told that fucking world of warcraft cryptocurrency pervert that I haven't been in or attended a warcraft orgy since starcraft3 / StarCraft 3.0 came out?

can she refrain from wearing clothes that
smell deeply of butter?
what is the answer to that? is it butter?
I doubt it, I doubt that butter is 
the answer.

innocuous post 44
do you like screenshots or regular shots?
and if you were to
take pictures of your feet, I 
would look at your feet all day
and I would LOOK AT YOUR: FEET!
BUTTER IS NOT THE ANSWER BABY!!!

innocuous post 45
i went to the buffet today, earlier today, and it was more expensive than i expected. it was dinner, and they had the crab special going on.
innocuous post 46

What. Is. What. Thoughts that occupy my mind. Staying happy isn't easy. Or not always easy. Not very easy. Emotions that sink my heart. Not being unhappy isn't easy. Not very easy. Or not always easy.

innocuous post 47
sometimes i feel sad. but it's kind of on and off. sometimes i get bored. sometimes. and sometimes it's on and off.

my mood isn't exactly up or down right now. i remember in elementary school i went to some kind of math summer school, and one guy referred to something that happened as "Bunk" and I had to ask what he meant by that, and he said "up or down." like the word "bunk" meant "up or down" or something. 

i don't mean that my mood is bunk. i just mean that I'm not happy, really, or unhappy. not at this exact moment or anything.

innocuous post 48
do i really need another desk? i don't think so. i want to get started on this writing crap. i just don't know. once. once i get started. the rest should be kind of easy. i think. i remember writing a series of poems based on someone else's series of poems. and it didn't take long to do. but i really don't think. I'm really not sure if my series was really all that spectacular.

writing a series of poems based on someone else's series of poems was easy. the conceptual part. the thinking part was out of the way. she already did that. my part was just to understand what she was saying, and say it my way.

it's kind of like. painting a painting based on someone else's painting.
for some reason you always come around 
here smelling like a deep buttery kind of
thing. you smell nice, and I really like it
and I think you are one of the better smelling
of the bunch.

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 37
somewhere in the ancient fortress town called
fort worth there is a winning lottery
ticket waiting to be purchased from bald
man number eight fourteen, he's soldering

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 36
i'm hungry right now. tacos again. i want to say fuck. but. i love tacos. cheap ones. i mean. and. well. i guess i mean i like not paying a hell of a lot of money for tacos. or. to be. i like when tacos are. you know. have cost efficiencies. or some shit. yeah. i really do. i was looking at my portfolio. i was shocked by how much. you know. shits down and whatever. the other day i tried to check the status of my unemployment claim. i would only be payment for 3 or 4 weeks, but it was during that period when there was a 600 a week bump.

a medieval random number picker
known as The Dart Board of Elysium 
which went downward through history, sticker
covered and glued with glitter and gypsum

Monday, August 31, 2020
This is where the innocuous post 24
Is posted for your reading enjoyment. could have sworn that I just saw. Someone famous. But maybe it was just. someone normal. 
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:56 PM 

to cover a crack in it's backside, and here
today, upon the bald man's desk, it sits,
waiting to reunite the forest's deer
with the savannah's antelope, which pits.

fuck this. the poem is fucking stupid.
i would much rather go right back to bed.

like where the fuck was I going to go
with that deer and antelope shit? who knows?

Monday, August 31, 2020
I innocuous post 23
good lord. i almost bought 4 more silver coins. i have to be careful not to be ridiculous all the time. well. i didn't do it. i have to remember not to do it later on. i'm just concerned that i might do it later on anyway.

it's almost the end of my work week. yesterday was actually pretty nice, there wasn't much downtime and i stayed busy the entire shift. but at one point it was clear that one of my co-workers was intentionally trying to aggravate me. i argued with him briefly, but i realized it was easier to tell him to find someone else to work with. i was already wrapping up my task, i didn't need his help, and he didn't need to loiter near me if we were going to have trouble getting along.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 7:35 PM

I was just thinking like. i have three lines 
left and i don't know where to take this damn
metaphor, dumb ass deer, dumb ass lions
stupid fucking dart board glued with green ham

and orange eggs. fuck. i had tacos once 
more today. glorious and crispy ones.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 5:29 PM 

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 38
Here were a few ideas that i have about trying this whole writing thing again. like fucking again. i thought i wrote this whole bull-shit writer crap off years. fucking years ago. that two years spent like half a decade ago was. i really think. the last time i took writing serious. i have a few ideas though, and, maybe this time it might work out.

the first idea is that i might keep the things i write unpublished on my blog, or anywhere else, for a while. copyright whatever i have once i'm sure i'm finished with it, then try to sell the work with the copyright to publishers.
the second idea is to take a few pieces that i have and see if there is any interest in funding me or offering an advance on a book of 100 or so poems. i just don't know how any of this works.

Search Engine Query: what the fuck, exactly, is a decentralized network? and will my getting involved result in me being designated creampie master to the danish cookie?
#searchenginequery
nessicito arepas, y papusas tamboen, gorditas, y otros comidas. una cenar tres partes deliciousas
idea for a feature for customer relationship management application / vernacular localization / contingent upon occupation / professional or occupation based localization / for example / cosmetics / pharmaceuticals / beverages / agriculture / munitions / petrochemical / energy

idea for a feature for customer relationship management application / vernacular localization / contingent upon occupation / professional or occupation based localization / for example / cosmetics / pharmaceuticals / beverages / agriculture / munitions / petrochemical / energy
nessicito arepas, y papusas tamboen, gorditas, y otros comidas. una cenar tres partes deliciousas

  Artists & Scientists: 
     Samuel Finley Breese Morse
  Bureaucrats & Legislators: 
     Alexander Hamilton
  Entrepreneurs & Magnates: 
     Éleuthère Irénée du Pont de Nemours
  Strategists & Tacticians: 
     John Charles Frémont

idea for a feature for customer relationship management application / vernacular localization / contingent upon occupation / professional or occupation based localization / for example / cosmetics / pharmaceuticals / beverages / agriculture / munitions / petrochemical / energy
damn it, it's actually: lagartos 

Years ago I was at a bar and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian🐊 conspiracy and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians🐙🦑, insectilians🦋, or robotilians🤖.

quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. los ligartes. mas gigantes.
idea for a feature for customer relationship management application / vernacular localization / contingent upon occupation / professional or occupation based localization / for example / cosmetics / pharmaceuticals / beverages / agriculture / munitions / petrochemical / energy

quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. los ligartes. mas gigantes.
quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. mas gigantes.

Emperor Seleucus I said tax credits would be granted to any infrastructure spending by Prince Antiochus I, provided he inflate his reported expenses by no more than 9% of actual costs incurred, and to seek assistance from his cousin Pharaoh Ptolemy II concerning other expenses.

Vladimir Putin I the Mediocre compares himself to Tsar Peter I the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine I the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short. The Hot Dog is mightier than the Keilbasa!

the third idea is to approach literary agents, or whatever, rather than publishers directly. i don't know how that works either.
i have plenty of stamps.

the last approach that i took was the one i had been doing for years. submit my poems to magazines and see if they could get published, and then. i guess, at that point approach publishers or agents with some kind of accomplishments that would give them a reason to work with me.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 7:15 PM 

Sunday, August 30, 2020
innocuous post 19
i'm cleaning a lot of this stuff up right now. i'm starting to think. maybe. i had an issue. like a mental one. but i already knew that.
these are strange times. i don't know. sometimes. what's true and what isn't.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 7:04 PM 

Sunday, August 30, 2020
innocuous post 20
I think. This fucking music is drowning out my thoughts. So. I should probably take a gew months to work on a personal project. And maybe this will be fun. Maybe it'll just be a fantastic waste of time.
I have an idea for this. Actually. How to do this the right way. I spent plenty of money on other experiments. Why not try this.
I don't know.
My head hurts. The temperature in Arlington was very high. And i forgot to leave my window open, so my apartment was basically a hot house the entire day.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:18 PM 

Monday, August 31, 2020
innocuous post 21
these are
screenshots
of different stuff
that i'm really into
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 5:32 PM

Monday, August 31, 2020
N innocuous post 22
cleaning up my blog here and there. this is a nightmare. there is a shit ton of stuff on here. this could take a long fucking time. like what exactly should i focus on? what exactly should i place priority on? i don't really know. i'm just going down the list, and i guess that's what i'll do.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 6:50 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 15
it's still somewhat hard to sleep during the day. it's just so hot. i found some free classes that i can take, that i think that would kind of be useful. i should buy a pair of headphones. 
for now, as far as finding a second job goes. i think i'll hold off on that for now. even the side hustle stuff. except maybe for selling stuff online. i don't imagine that to be too taxing or draining or anything that will leave me fatigued, but i don't have anything to sell, other than. my used clothes. well. a bunch of other stuff too.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 6:41 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 16
"a single H-6J bomber to [Woody Island] should
not be viewed as a game-changer"
China is going to deploy an HJ bomber to 
Woody Island? of course that's not changing
the game. A BJ-4U Interceptor, however, would
create a big fat load of new problems.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:14 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 17
I don't even know what exactly is on my mind. I really dont. Maybe. I'm almost halfway through my weekend.
What makes the days so long? Lacking that which makes them short. The grief is real. It actually is.
On the ride to work today there was a kind of monsoon. My windshield wipers arent that fast. And i had almost no visibility for several miles. My car is really small and light. So the wind really pushes me around. In high winds i roll my windows down. With the rain it was kind of annoying getting all wet.

Even I can be a total jerk sometimes
Just thinking about
things I've done. before.
But who hasn't been a jerk to me?
everyone has been a jerk to me
at one point or another
and fair is fucking fair.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:59 PM
Sunday, August 30, 2020
innocuous post 18
I don't like way this feels. It's really.
It's an unpleasant emotion. I think
about how some conclusions are silly.
The wrong direction. The wrong path. A link
in a chain of incorrect steps that a 
person makes. That a person is bound by.
And maybe it will all work out some day.
Maybe not in the specific way I
had in mind. Here? or somewhere else? now? or
sometime in the distant future? What's life
really all about? Fulfilling those short
term needs like hunger. How many times I've
stared blankly at a bowl of oatmeal and
said: you're not what I want to eat, my friend.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 12:53 AM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 7
after eating at the buffet i was going to head to my mailbox, but the traffic was terrible, so i figured that i would check it later. i did check it the other night. and really. i probably don't need to check it again for a little while longer.
what was i thinking? the second job stuff, and the side hustle stuff. well. i put most of these ideas to the side for the minute. something came up. and i figured that i would put this other stuff to the side for a while.
if i were to sell stuff online. well. i don't really have anything to sell. other than the stuff i bought already. and really don't need.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 5:41 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 8
I guess these are updates about how things have been for me stock market wise.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 6:03 PM

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 9
I started using youtube music. Google play music is being sunset. Or whatever. So i had to transfer my library from one to the other. The youtube music thing has this radio aspect to it. And that's the main aspect of it. The library is secondary. The problem i have with the radio thing is that i skip tons of songs before i find something i like. Ive always used youtube for music. Or at least more for music than anything else.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 8:47 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 10
Im not hungry. But. I feel like getting something to eat. Or drink.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:09 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 11
Find stuff to do. Nothing exacerbates a bad mood. Nothing exacerbates sadness like hanging out around the house. Like driving around town aimlessly. Like listening to sad music. Or aggressive music.

Maybe i should try doing some dating crap. I'm paid up for okcupid until january. So maybe i should do some dating. But dating is such a distraction. But what im i afraid of being distracted from? It's not like i have some amazing horseshit planned with my life.

Right now. My issue is exactly zits. I sweat non stop in this state. I rarely use acne cream. The tube i have still has a bunch in it. But it bleaches my clothes.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:43 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 12
What's on my mind. Well. Another day. I'm usually alone. Breaking the ice. I don't know how to explain it. For me. There's a kind of uneasiness being around other people. And there's this. Kind of a need to try to be pleasant.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 12:46 AM

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 13
Yelp. It occurred to me that i have to clean up yelp too.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:25 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 14
i went to walmart and bought 13 bottles of diet pepsi in the 2 liter size, and a bottle of dole lemonade in the 2 liter size. i also bought a box of white chocolate macadamia cookies.
and this is probably where this blog. devolves. into a daily list of the exact things i did for any particular day.
maybe it doesn't devolve in that direction. maybe it just changes.
i don't know. 
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 2:18 PM 

Saturday, September 5, 2020
innocuous post 48
do i really need another desk? i don't think so. i want to get started on this writing crap. i just don't know. once. once i get started. the rest should be kind of easy. i think. i remember writing a series of poems based on someone else's series of poems. and it didn't take long to do. but i really don't think. i'm really not sure if my series was really all that spectacular.
writing a series of poems based on someone else's series of poems was easy. the conceptual part. the thinking part was out of the way. she already did that. my part was just to understand what she was saying, and say it my way.
it's kind of like. painting a painting based on someone else's painting.
I wish life were easier. Now. Shoes. So i talked with this shoe repair guy and he said 25 bucks for heel replacement. But did he mean per heel? Or per pair? So i have five shoes in need of heel replacement. Im hoping that it would only cost 65 dollars for all of them. And my mom. My mom is back thank fucking god.

Thursday, August 27, 2020
innocuous post 1
i may have to make some revisions to my. i guess. total online presence. social media and whatever else. i was going to start with pinterest. i turns out i have a different pinterest on my computer. and a different pinterest on my phone.
just to make sure i was using the word innocuous correctly, i looked the word up in the dictionary and came across the word:
anodyne
what i've concluded from the definitions of the two words is that anodyne is different from innocuous in that it refers to intentionally, or deliberately being innocuous.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:11 PM 

i'm not ready for whatever
is about to happen next in 
my life. this is not going well
and I can't believe this is really
happening to me all over again.

Thursday, August 27, 2020
innocuous post 2
i think that i've cleaned up the main social media stuff that i need to. i have a few other things too, i'll get to them soon.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 10:52 PM 

Thursday, August 27, 2020
innocuous post 3
blog page removal. notes from other stuff.
Submit your poetry to Chestnut and Hazel by using the submissions box at the side of the page.
here are more things
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 10:54 PM 

Thursday, August 27, 2020
innocuous post 4
this posts
had a number
of screenshots
of stamps that i wanted to buy, and that I think
i actually eventually purchased.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 11:04 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 5
I'm at the buffet. Eating. Well. Of course I'm eating. I have to check again about the second job stuff. But there are potential issues that may come up if overtime is required at either job. However. There would only be the potential of overlap of shifts one day a week. I have 1 specific 2nd job in mind. And it's the one I'm trying to work out in my head.
My current job and the potential second job are on opposite sides of FT Worth, this isn't necessarily a problem because I live in Arlington, it's in the middle of these two locations.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:16 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 6
Finished lunch. I have to figure something out. Money wise.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:54 PM 

Dating profile deletion
I recently purchased the six month A-List package for okcupid, and I'm already thinking about mothballing this account.
I don't seem to have much success meeting people, and I'm not very interested in having long drawn out internet conversations.
I don't anticipate using online dating websites much longer.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 2:08 PM 

Friday, September 4, 2020
innocuous post 43
any clothes
hardly wear
and women who
including naked women
that i am looking at
with all the stuff
my data
wasting
that i am 
i think
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 3:33 PM 

Friday, September 4, 2020
innocuous post 44
do you like screenshots or regular shots?
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 4:06 PM 

Friday, September 4, 2020
innocuous post 45
i went to the buffet today, earlier today, and it was more expensive than i expected. it was dinner, and they had the crab special going on.
caldwell
clinton   
dekalb
daviess
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:16 PM 

Friday, September 4, 2020
innocuous post 46
What. Is. What. Thoughts that occupy my mind. Staying happy isn't easy. Or not always easy. Not very easy. Emotions that sink my heart. Not being unhappy isn't easy. Not very easy. Or not always easy.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 10:22 PM 

Saturday, September 5, 2020
innocuous post 47
sometimes i feel sad. but it's kind of on and off. sometimes i get bored. sometimes. and sometimes it's on and off.
my mood isn't exactly up or down right now. i remember in elementary school i went to some kind of math summer school, and one guy referred to something that happened as "Bunk" and I had to ask what he meant by that, and he said "up or down." like the word "bunk" meant "up or down" or something. 
i don't mean that my mood is bunk. i just mean that i'm not happy, really, or unhappy. not at this exact moment or anything.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 3:24 PM 

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 36
i'm hungry right now. tacos again. i want to say fuck. but. i love tacos. cheap ones. i mean. and. well. i guess i mean i like not paying a hell of a lot of money for tacos. or. to be. i like when tacos are. you know. have cost efficiencies. or some shit. yeah. i really do. i was looking at my portfolio. i was shocked by how much. you know. shits down and whatever. the other day i tried to check the status of my unemployment claim. i would only be payment for 3 or 4 weeks, but it was during that period when there was a 600 a week bump.

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 38
Here were a few ideas that i have about trying this whole writing thing again. like fucking again. i thought i wrote this whole bull-shit writer crap off years. fucking years ago. that two years spent like half a decade ago was. i really think. the last time i took writing serious. i have a few ideas though, and, maybe this time it might work out.
the first idea is that i might keep the things i write unpublished on my blog, or anywhere else, for a while. copyright whatever i have once i'm sure i'm finished with it, then try to sell the work with the copyright to publishers.
the second idea is to take a few pieces that i have and see if there is any interest in funding me or offering an advance on a book of 100 or so poems. i just don't know how any of this works.
the third idea is to approach literary agents, or whatever, rather than publishers directly. i don't know how that works either.
i have plenty of stamps.
the last approach that i took was the one i had been doing for years. submit my poems to magazines and see if they could get published, and then. i guess, at that point approach publishers or agents with some kind of accomplishments that would give them a reason to work with me.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 7:15 PM 

Monday, August 31, 2020
innocuous post 21
these are
screenshots
of different stuff
that i'm really into
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 5:32 PM

Monday, August 31, 2020
N innocuous post 22
cleaning up my blog here and there. this is a nightmare. there is a shit ton of stuff on here. this could take a long fucking time. like what exactly should i focus on? what exactly should i place priority on? i don't really know. i'm just going down the list, and i guess that's what i'll do.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 6:50 PM 

Monday, August 31, 2020
I innocuous post 23
good lord. i almost bought 4 more silver coins. i have to be careful not to be ridiculous all the time. well. i didn't do it. i have to remember not to do it later on. i'm just concerned that i might do it later on anyway.
it's almost the end of my work week. yesterday was actually pretty nice, there wasn't much downtime and i stayed busy the entire shift. but at one point it was clear that one of my co-workers was intentionally trying to aggravate me. i argued with him briefly, but i realized it was easier to tell him to find someone else to work with. i was already wrapping up my task, i didn't need his help, and he didn't need to loiter near me if we were going to have trouble getting along.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 7:35 PM

Monday, August 31, 2020
T innocuous post 24
I could have sworn that i just saw. Someone famous. But maybe it was just. someone normal. 
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:56 PM 

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 39
What's up? Well. I bought a few lottery tickets. Not in the bizzare way i thought of and mentioned in a previous post. What i did was buy 5 near my apartment. And 3 near my work. And that's it. Buying lottery tickets has always seemed like a silly thing to do. I never win. Not the jackpot anyway.
Buying lottery tickets. Trying to get published. Both of these things seem like silly ideas to me. And neither of them have ever really worked.
I have this funny idea for a series of poems though.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 8:56 PM 

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 40
Photo dump
i thought
of different
screenshots
stuff that
was really coll [cool] and
this is where you are

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 8:59 PM 
are you wearing panties right now?
because it smells nicer in here
that it does in any other place
i've ever been in my entire life.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 2:19 PM

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 41
Good lord. I don't want to do any online dating crap. I really don't. My apartment isnt really well suited for having guests over. I dont have a TV. I don't have a bed. Or a couch. I don't have an internet connection either. I just use my fucking phone. And honestly. I don't want anyone moving in with me either.
I don't want a bed. Or a couch. Or a tv. Or a fucking internet connection.
these are anges of clorishallia
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 10:18 PM 
Friday, September 4, 2020
innocuous post 42
i really struggled with being. kind of. in a state of emotional despair this morning. this is one of those things. where. i know this goes away after a while. but it's never definite as to when it goes away.

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 14
i went to walmart and bought 13 bottles of diet pepsi in the 2 liter size, and a bottle of dole lemonade in the 2 liter size. i also bought a box of white chocolate macadamia cookies.
and this is probably where this blog. devolves. into a daily list of the exact things i did for any particular day.
maybe it doesn't devolve in that direction. maybe it just changes.
i don't know. 
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 2:18 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 15
it's still somewhat hard to sleep during the day. it's just so hot. i found some free classes that i can take, that i think that would kind of be useful. i should buy a pair of headphones. 
for now, as far as finding a second job goes. i think i'll hold off on that for now. even the side hustle stuff. except maybe for selling stuff online. i don't imagine that to be too taxing or draining or anything that will leave me fatigued, but i don't have anything to sell, other than. my used clothes. well. a bunch of other stuff too.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 6:41 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 16
"a single H-6J bomber to [Woody Island] should
not be viewed as a game-changer"
China is going to deploy an HJ bomber to 
Woody Island? of course that's not changing
the game. A BJ-4U Interceptor, however, would
create a big fat load of new problems.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:14 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 17
I don't even know what exactly is on my mind. I really dont. Maybe. I'm almost halfway through my weekend.
What makes the days so long? Lacking that which makes them short. The grief is real. It actually is.
On the ride to work today there was a kind of monsoon. My windshield wipers arent that fast. And i had almost no visibility for several miles. My car is really small and light. So the wind really pushes me around. In high winds i roll my windows down. With the rain it was kind of annoying getting all wet.
Even I can be a total jerk sometimes
Just thinking about
things I've done. before.
But who hasn't been a jerk to me?
everyone has been a jerk to me
at one point or another
and fair is fucking fair.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:59 PM

Sunday, August 30, 2020
innocuous post 18
I don't like way this feels. It's really.
It's an unpleasant emotion. I think
about how some conclusions are silly.
The wrong direction. The wrong path. A link
in a chain of incorrect steps that a 
person makes. That a person is bound by.
And maybe it will all work out some day.
Maybe not in the specific way I
had in mind. Here? or somewhere else? now? or
sometime in the distant future? What's life
really all about? Fulfilling those short
term needs like hunger. How many times I've
stared blankly at a bowl of oatmeal and
said: you're not what I want to eat, my friend.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 12:53 AM 

Sunday, August 30, 2020
innocuous post 19
i'm cleaning a lot of this stuff up right now. i'm starting to think. maybe. i had an issue. like a mental one. but i already knew that.
these are strange times. i don't know. sometimes. what's true and what isn't.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 7:04 PM 

Sunday, August 30, 2020
innocuous post 20
I think. This fucking music is drowning out my thoughts. So. I should probably take a gew months to work on a personal project. And maybe this will be fun. Maybe it'll just be a fantastic waste of time.
I have an idea for this. Actually. How to do this the right way. I spent plenty of money on other experiments. Why not try this.
I don't know.
My head hurts. The temperature in Arlington was very high. And i forgot to leave my window open, so my apartment was basically a hot house the entire day.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:18 PM 

Vladimir Putin I the Mediocre compares himself to Tsar Peter I the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine I the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short. The Boudin is mightier than the Keilbasa!
Vladimir Putin compares himself to Tsar Peter the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short.

Vladimir Putin compares himself to Tsar Peter the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Short
but basically, the 250K valuation of Chestnut + Hazel is based on my most recent round of series D seed funding from the Kenneth Larot Yamat venture fund of 130 USD for a .052 % equity stake. hehehe. my burn rate is remarkably low. hehe anyway.um, i actually increased my net worth to 250K, year to date, but 271K of that is due to stretched and lofty valuations of my. you know. my publishing enterprise. hehehe!

blogging is such a huge distraction. Kind of a headache
and when I have to do a whole bunch of revisions this
is a nightmare.

I'm not prepared for whatever it
is that happens next really not
prepared. this is a headache.

quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. mas gigantes.

Vladimir Putin I the Mediocre compares himself to Tsar Peter I the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine I the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short. The Hot Dog is mightier than the Keilbasa!

quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. los ligartes. mas gigantes.
quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. los ligartes. mas gigantes.

but um, one thing i want to point out about your endless chatter about a 60k salary as being insufficient, there are actually quite a few people who, I think have a salary of zero dollars annually, they're wealthy because of their equity positions.I guess I could finish that Circuit City piece by Sotomayor.

there's a kind of limit to how many times i want to read a reiterated article on the same tending topic, even if the subject matter becomes incrementally more interesting day after day.
what was i thinking about? i don't mind pay-walls, it's just that i have to deal with about 50 - 100 per day, and it isn't clear to me if there's an all access pay-wall pass to every periodical in existence.
damn it, it's actually: lagartos

Vladimir Putin I the Mediocre compares himself to Tsar Peter I the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine I the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short. The Hot Dog is mightier than the Keilbasa!
Vladimir Putin I the Mediocre compares himself to Tsar Peter I the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine I the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short. The Boudin is mightier than the Keilbasa!
Vladimir Putin compares himself to Tsar Peter the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short.

Vladimir Putin compares himself to Tsar Peter the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Short. i am not prepared for whatever it is that happens next.

Thursday, August 27, 2020
innocuous post 4
this posts
had a number
of screenshots
of stamps that i wanted to buy, and that I think
i actually eventually purchased.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 11:04 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 5
I'm at the buffet. Eating. Well. Of course I'm eating. I have to check again about the second job stuff. But there are potential issues that may come up if overtime is required at either job. However. There would only be the potential of overlap of shifts one day a week. I have 1 specific 2nd job in mind. And it's the one I'm trying to work out in my head.

My current job and the potential second job are on opposite sides of FT Worth, this isn't necessarily a problem because I live in Arlington, it's in the middle of these two locations.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:16 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 6
Finished lunch. I have to figure something out. Money wise.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:54 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 7
after eating at the buffet i was going to head to my mailbox, but the traffic was terrible, so i figured that i would check it later. i did check it the other night. and really. i probably don't need to check it again for a little while longer.

what was i thinking? the second job stuff, and the side hustle stuff. well. i put most of these ideas to the side for the minute. something came up. and i figured that i would put this other stuff to the side for a while.
if i were to sell stuff online. well. i don't really have anything to sell. other than the stuff i bought already. and really don't need.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 5:41 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 8
I guess these are updates about how things have been for me stock market wise.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 6:03 PM

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 9
I started using youtube music. Google play music is being sunset. Or whatever. So i had to transfer my library from one to the other. The youtube music thing has this radio aspect to it. And that's the main aspect of it. The library is secondary. The problem i have with the radio thing is that i skip tons of songs before i find something i like. Ive always used youtube for music. Or at least more for music than anything else.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 8:47 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 10
Im not hungry. But. I feel like getting something to eat. Or drink.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:09 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 11
Find stuff to do. Nothing exacerbates a bad mood. Nothing exacerbates sadness like hanging out around the house. Like driving around town aimlessly. Like listening to sad music. Or aggressive music.
Maybe i should try doing some dating crap. I'm paid up for okcupid until january. So maybe i should do some dating. But dating is such a distraction. But what im i afraid of being distracted from? It's not like i have some amazing horseshit planned with my life.
Right now. My issue is exactly zits. I sweat non stop in this state. I rarely use acne cream. The tube i have still has a bunch in it. But it bleaches my clothes.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:43 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 12
What's on my mind. Well. Another day. I'm usually alone. Breaking the ice. I don't know how to explain it. For me. There's a kind of uneasiness being around other people. And there's this. Kind of a need to try to be pleasant.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 12:46 AM

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 13
Yelp. It occurred to me that i have to clean up yelp too.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:25 PM 

So I think of the # danishcookieuxorious series as being everything from the end of # putinpullout! to this exact tweet. and i'll register a copyright for # danishcookieuxorious, and then start using some other hashtag.
and then I'm going to copyright the lyrics to song titled: "I'm sorry Ms. Jensen, I'm actually not even lying about my intentions."
in addition to all of that: I'm also going to file a patent for the box that the envelopes are sold in, and the patent is going to be filed as: Danish Cookie Flavored Envelope Scented Boxes.
and I'm also going to file a patent for an envelope called: Danish Cookie Flavored Envelopes! and these won't be self-sealing, you'll have to lick and taste these envelopes!

this is going to take a while longer
I didn't really know how long
this post really was but it was
a series of other posts with
content from around the web
from my social media profiles.

i dont know how i feel right now. Akward i guess. I did something weird at work. And im still all weirded out about it. And i dont know. How i feel. Fuck.

Thursday, August 27, 2020
innocuous post 1
i may have to make some revisions to my. i guess. total online presence. social media and whatever else. i was going to start with pinterest. i turns out i have a different pinterest on my computer. and a different pinterest on my phone.
just to make sure i was using the word innocuous correctly, i looked the word up in the dictionary and came across the word:
anodyne
what i've concluded from the definitions of the two words is that anodyne is different from innocuous in that it refers to intentionally, or deliberately being innocuous.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:11 PM 

Thursday, August 27, 2020
innocuous post 2
i think that i've cleaned up the main social media stuff that i need to. i have a few other things too, i'll get to them soon.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 10:52 PM 

Thursday, August 27, 2020
innocuous post 3
blog page removal. notes from other stuff.
Submit your poetry to Chestnut and Hazel by using the submissions box at the side of the page.
here are more things
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 10:54 PM 

A Twitter catfish posts risqué 
photographs  and actual perverts 
ask to meet up, sad truth: 

I tried macking ladies approach on 
Snapchat and it didn't seem 
to achieve anything, nothing!
In the CCP uses the Yuan (¥) or 
the Kublai Khan Dollar, the USA 
uses the USD ($), or, the Ameri Khan Dollar!

A dress from second-hand 
store fabric that you made: I 
would like first-hand experience 
pulling it off your body!

a phony Twitter catfish posts risqué 
photographs and actual perverts 
ask to meet up, as for me? it's never 
worked. data driven results: 

i tried macking numerous ladies on 
Snapchat and after macking 100
beezies I liquidated zero peezies!

I think the Flying Dutchman should buy: A.P. Møller – Mærsk A/S + Vale S.A. + PayPal Holdings, Inc. and do it before 2031, the Year of the Boar. The Acquisition of PayPal Holdings, Inc. should be called: The Reconquista.
I'm serious; I'm going to make an envelope called: Danish Cookie Scented Envelopes! What other woman in the Milky Way Galaxy will have an envelope patent named after her?
I think I just got some inspiration.

May 30
and this is kind of why i'm somewhat insensitive to current events. there was actually a spike in mass shootings in the DFW area at gentlemen's clubs, and, i feel like i'm the only person who followed the issue.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 4
A Twitter catfish posts risqué
photographs and actual perverts
ask to meet up, sad truth: 
I tried that approach on 
Snapchat and it didn't
accomplish anything, nothing!
#DanishCookieUxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 4
I think that the Flying Dutchman should by: A.P. Møller – Mærsk A/S + Vale S.A. + PayPal Holdings, Inc. and do it before 2031, the Year of the Boar. Buying PayPal Holdings, Inc. should be called: The Reconquista.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
Jun 4
I'm curious to know how you settled the logistical aspects of relocation: did you sell everything? intending just to buy new things in your new city?
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
Jun 4
I think that the Flying Dutchman should by: A.P. Møller – Mærsk A/S + Vale S.A. + PayPal Holdings, Inc. and do it before 2031, the Year of the Boar. Buying PayPal Holdings, Inc. should be called: The Reconquista.
#DanishCookieUxorious

Kenneth Larot Yamat
Jun 4
A Twitter catfish posts risqué 
photographs  and actual perverts 
ask to meet up, data driven results: 
I tried macking ladies approach on 
Snapchat and after macking 100
beezies I liquidated zero peezies!

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30
Relocation:
One issue with banker boxes is that they really are kind of expensive in comparison to regular boxes. I think price vs utility can effect the way a person experiences a product.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30

yeah, honestly, i'd just sell everything and buy new stuff when you get to your new city.
#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30

and think about this: since you are such an amazing craftswoman, you can probably get an Etsy premium, or creative-unique-cool-stuff premium for your stuff. and then just make new stuff when you get to your new place.
#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30

but in some ways. the easiest thing to do: it might be easiest just to sell whatever you aren't really emotionally attached to, and buy new stuff online using your new residence as the ship-to location
#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30

anyway, i don't know if you have any Danish Cookie scented quilts. or anything. but um. there might be a premium attached to that. i'd buy one, but i didn't see an OnlyFans link on your linktree.
but basically, the 250K valuation of Chestnut + Hazel is based on my most recent round of series D seed funding from the Kenneth Larot Yamat venture fund of 130 USD for a .052 % equity stake. hehehe. my burn rate is remarkably low. hehe anyway.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

16h
um, i actually increased my net worth to 250K, year to date, but 271K of that is due to stretched and lofty valuations of my. you know. my publishing enterprise. hehehe!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

there was something
there and she new it
boobies are the key
to happiness.

16h
but um, one thing i want to point out about your endless chatter about a 60k salary as being insufficient, there are actually quite a few people who, I think have a salary of zero dollars annually, they're wealthy because of their equity positions.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

16h
I guess I could finish that Circuit City piece by Sotomayor.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

16h
there's a kind of limit to how many times i want to read a reiterated article on the same tending topic, even if the subject matter becomes incrementally more interesting day after day.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

16h
what was i thinking about? i don't mind pay-walls, it's just that i have to deal with about 50 - 100 per day, and it isn't clear to me if there's an all access pay-wall pass to every periodical in existence.
not really
ready for whatever
happens next whatever is
in store for me.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
Jun 8
i think that the return to the office (RTO) movement is a joint conspiracy on the part of the automobile cartel, and the vehicle mafia to sell more cars! how do i know? simple: cui bono!
#cyclamateandwater

i am not prepared for whatever
it is that happens next not 
really sure
i'm ready for the next stage in my 
life whatever that happens to be.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 8
i think that the return to the office (RTO) movement is a joint conspiracy on the part of the automobile cartel, and the vehicle mafia to sell more cars!
#cyclamateandwater
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

47m
idea for a feature for customer relationship management application / vernacular localization / contingent upon occupation / professional or occupation based localization / for example / cosmetics / pharmaceuticals / beverages / agriculture / munitions / petrochemical / energy
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

54m
damn it, it's actually: lagartos
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

59m
quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. los ligartes. mas gigantes.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

1h
quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. los ligartes. mas gigantes.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

1h
quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. mas gigantes.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

4h
Vladimir Putin I the Mediocre compares himself to Tsar Peter I the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine I the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short. The Hot Dog is mightier than the Keilbasa!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

4h
Vladimir Putin I the Mediocre compares himself to Tsar Peter I the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine I the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short. The Boudin is mightier than the Keilbasa!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

7h
Vladimir Putin compares himself to Tsar Peter the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

7h
Vladimir Putin compares himself to Tsar Peter the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Short
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

15h
but basically, the 250K valuation of Chestnut + Hazel is based on my most recent round of series D seed funding from the Kenneth Larot Yamat venture fund of 130 USD for a .052 % equity stake. hehehe. my burn rate is remarkably low. hehe anyway.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

i don;t what to do
i mean i have a few
ideas but
nothing is sure
and i'm really scared
about what to do next.
i really am i have
no cushion.

16h
um, i actually increased my net worth to 250K, year to date, but 271K of that is due to stretched and lofty valuations of my. you know. my publishing enterprise. hehehe!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

16h
but um, one thing i want to point out about your endless chatter about a 60k salary as being insufficient, there are actually quite a few people who, I think have a salary of zero dollars annually, they're wealthy because of their equity positions.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

16h
I guess I could finish that Circuit City piece by Sotomayor.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

16h
there's a kind of limit to how many times i want to read a reiterated article on the same tending topic, even if the subject matter becomes incrementally more interesting day after day.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

i don't know what route
to take right now. just
risk it or play it safe
and steady.

16h
what was i thinking about? i don't mind pay-walls, it's just that i have to deal with about 50 - 100 per day, and it isn't clear to me if there's an all access pay-wall pass to every periodical in existence.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 8
i think that the return to the office (RTO) movement is a joint conspiracy on the part of the automobile cartel, and the vehicle mafia to sell more cars! how do i know? simple: cui bono!
#cyclamateandwater
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 8
i think that the return to the office (RTO) movement is a joint conspiracy on the part of the automobile cartel, and the vehicle mafia to sell more cars!
#cyclamateandwater
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 7
"...all possible measures should be implemented to avoid following the bad example set
by Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. (MFG)"
This is a shareholder proposal from the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. (MUFG) annual meeting.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 8
I would totally put forward shareholder proposals during the Twitter, Inc. (TWTR) annual meeting, calling out Meta Platforms, Inc. (FB), and vice versa, and I would just do that all day long. Then I'd do Kansas City Southern V. Union Pacific. All day. Serious.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

after not quire a year,
here i am waiting to get
out of this hole and
this is a nightmare.

Jun 7
Replying to 
@KennethLYamat
and then I would do Conagra and call out Hormel. I would do AT&T and call out Verizon. I would then put forward a proposal at Exxon, calling out Chevron, and then another one, at Pfizer, calling out AstraZeneca.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 8
here's another one, and it happens in a sequence: I'll put forward a proposal at Mondelez calling out Nestle, regarding chocolates, and then a proposal at Nestle calling out Abbott Labs, regarding baby formula.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 7
This is the funniest thing I've read in a long time:
"...all possible measures should be implemented to avoid following the bad example set
by Mizuho Financial Group, Inc."
This is shareholder proposal from MUFG's annual meeting.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 7
i think of cyclamate as being artificially sweet, and unnaturally sweet, sweetness doesn't come naturally, i think of cyclamate as something dangerous, but i also think of cyclamate as having less substance than sugar!
#cyclamateandwater
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
Jun 7

this a reference to: sugar and water, the preferred beverage of cockroach man from outer space!
i think of cyclamate as being artificially sweet, meaning being sweet isn't natural, but i also think of cyclamate as being dangerous.
#cyclamateandwater
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 7
it's hot, and i realize that
my mood has a flipped 
relationship with the weather.

when it's sunny: i feel
under the weather, and when
its gloomy: i feel animated.

#cyclamateandwater

this a reference to: sugar and water, the preferred beverage of cockroach man.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 7
it's hot, and i realize that
my mood has a flipped 
relationship with the weather.

when it's sunny: i feel
under the weather, and when
its gloomy: i feel animated.

#
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 7
it's hot, and i realize that
my mood has a flipped 
relationship with the weather.

when it's sunny: i feel
under the weather, and when
its gloomy: i feel animated.

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 6
So I think of the # danishcookieuxorious series as being everything from the end of # putinpullout! to this exact tweet. and i'll register a copyright for # danishcookieuxorious, and then start using some other hashtag.

#DanishCookieUxorious

* * *

... and then I would do Conagra and call out Hormel. I would do AT&T and call out Verizon. I would then put forward a proposal at Exxon, calling out Chevron, and then another one, at Pfizer, calling out AstraZeneca.
7:06 PM · Jun 7, 2022·Twitter Web App
View Tweet analytics

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
11h
Replying to 
@KennethLYamat
... here's another one, and it happens in a sequence: I'll put forward a proposal at Mondelez calling out Nestle, regarding chocolates, and then a proposal at Nestle calling out Abbott Labs, regarding baby formula.



Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
22h
Replying to 
@KennethLYamat
I would totally put forward shareholder proposals during the Twitter, Inc. (TWTR) annual meeting, calling out Meta Platforms, Inc. (FB), and vice versa, and I would just do that all day long. Then I'd do Kansas City Southern V. Union Pacific. All day. Serious.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
22h
and then I would do Conagra and call out Hormel. I would do AT&T and call out Verizon. I would then put forward a proposal at Exxon, calling out Chevron, and then another one, at Pfizer, calling out AstraZeneca.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

11h
here's another one, and it happens in a sequence: I'll put forward a proposal at Mondelez calling out Nestle, regarding chocolates, and then a proposal at Nestle calling out Abbott Labs, regarding baby formula.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

11h
Replying to 
@KennethLYamat
I would totally put forward shareholder proposals during the Twitter, Inc. (TWTR) annual meeting, calling out Meta Platforms, Inc. (FB), and vice versa, and I would just do that all day long. Then I'd do Kansas City Southern V. Union Pacific. All day. Serious.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 6
So I think of the # danishcookieuxorious series as being everything from the end of # putinpullout! to this exact tweet. and i'll register a copyright for # danishcookieuxorious, and then start using some other hashtag.
#DanishCookieUxorious

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 7
it's hot, and i realize that
my mood has a flipped 
relationship with the weather.

when it's sunny: i feel
under the weather, and when
its gloomy: i feel animated.
#cyclamateandwater

this a reference to: sugar and water, the preferred beverage of cockroach man.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 7
it's hot, and i realize that
my mood has a flipped 
relationship with the weather.

when it's sunny: i feel
under the weather, and when
its gloomy: i feel animated.

#
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 7
it's hot, and i realize that
my mood has a flipped 
relationship with the weather.

when it's sunny: i feel
under the weather, and when
its gloomy: i feel animated.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 7
i think of cyclamate as being artificially sweet, and unnaturally sweet, sweetness doesn't come naturally, i think of cyclamate as something dangerous, but i also think of cyclamate as having less substance than sugar!

#cyclamateandwater
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 13
Mod mode dev tools and open source code has greater utility then God mode N00B codes!

#UX
#userexperience
#nintendosUX
#atarisUX
#SEX
#SubstantiallybetterEXperience
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 13
Mod mode dev tools and open source code has greater utility then God mode N00B codes!

#UX
#userexperience
#nintendo
#atari
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 12
I know, with 91% statistical confidence, that my Mandarins were filled with Orange Juice, and with 91% statistical certainty, that my Oranges were filled with Mandarin Juice! From the bottom of my gut! My navel is about to burst with something somewhat similar to stomach sauce.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

there are too many
things going on right now.

May 12
I know, with 91% statistical confidence, that my Mandarins were filled with Orange Juice, and with 91% statistical certainty, that my Oranges were filled with Mandarin Juice! My navel is about to burst with something I can only be say is somewhat acidic.

#USFoodDept.com,INC
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 12
With 91% statistical confidence I know that my Mandarins were filled with Orange Juice and with a 91% statistical certainty, that my Oranges were filled with Mandarin Juice! My navel is about to burst with something I can only be say is somewhat acidic.

#USFoodDept.com,INC
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 12
With 91% statistical confidence I know that my Mandarins were filled with Orange Juice, and with a 91% statistical certainty, that my Oranges were filled with Mandarin Juice! My navel is about to burst with something I can only be say is somewhat acidic.

#USFoodDept.com,INC
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 12
I can't believe the Eskimo 5 pipeline was shut down! How are fat Russian oligarchs going to run their super yachts? On whale blubber? Oilgarchs and Gasgarchs hide money from Grannygarchs! Grannygarchs have revenge! True Eskimos run kayaks on whale blubber anyway!

#GILFconspiracy
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 12
I can't believe the Eskimo 5 pipeline was shut down! How are the Russian oligarchs going to run their super yachts? Whale blubber? Oilgarchs and Gasgarchs hide money from Grannygarchs! Grannygarchs have revenge! True Eskimos run kayaks on whale blubber anyway!

#GILFconspiracy
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 12
I was told that inflation conquers all, but then this GILF started talking about Cost of Living Adjustments (COLA), and Treasury Inflation Protected Securities (TIPS), GILFs don't suffer from inflation the way I suffer!

May 13
I want to outline four user experience design and engineering principles: xenomorphic, yautjaistic, humanoid, and robotoid.

#UX
#UXdesign
#UXengineering
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 13
User experience feedback:
"It's a paperweight."
"I'm not a xenomorph!"
"Do I look like a Klingon?"
"I don't know what this is."

"I'm starting at 000 
and working my way 
up to 999"
"Open sesame!"

#UX
#userexperience
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 13
User experience feedback:

"It's a paperweight."

"I'm not a xenomorph!"
"Do I look like a Klingon?"
"I don't what this is."

"I'm starting at 000 
and working my way 
up to 999"

"Open sesame!"

#UX
#userexperience
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

man
yeah things
are not going well things
are a disaster
i guess
things were on
a kind of cruise control
not too long ago.

May 13
User experience feedback:

"It's a paperweight."
"I'm not a xenomorph!"
"Do I look like a Klingon?"
"I don't what this is."
"I'm starting at 000 
and working my way 
up to 999"

#UX
#userexperience

I don't think the granny slut gilf-garch from the ministry of truth should edit anyone's comments! my rouble is 7.5 american inches, and and yields 7.5 british pounds for every 7.5 russian kilometers, of perimeter when measured with an electron micro-scope!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 15
I don't think the granny slut gilf-garch from the ministry of truth should edit anyone's comments! my rouble is 7.5 american inches, and and yields 7.5 british pounds for every 7.5 russian kilometers, of perimeter!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 15
I don't think the granny slut gilf-garch from the ministry of truth should edit anyone's comments! my rouble is 7.5 american inches, and and yields 7.5 british pounds for every 7.4 russian kilometers, of perimeter!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 15
I figured out exactly how to use the antikythera mechanism: it's a paper weight. Other than that? I don't know; some kind of ancient xenomorph or yautja compass-sextant-astrolabe-GPS navigation bullshit?

#UX
#UXdesign
#UXengineering
#userexperienceforarcheologists
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 15
I figured out exactly how to use the antikythera mechanism: it's a paper weight. Other than that? I don't know; some kind of ancient xenomorph or yatuja compas-sextant-astrolabe-GPS navigation bullshit?

#UX
#UXdesign
#UXengineering
#userexperienceforarcheologists
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 15
Kungpao Cougars favor the gold.

#grannygarch
#GILFconspiracy
#kungpaoCougars
#compoundinterest
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 15
I can't believe the Eskimo 5 pipeline was shut down! How are fat Russian oligarchs going to run their super yachts? On whale blubber? Oil garchs and Gasgarchs hide money from Grannygarchs! Grannygarchs get revenge! True Eskimos run kayaks on whale blubber anyway!

#dmitryrogozin
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 15
I can't believe the Eskimo 5 pipeline was shut down! How are fat Russian oligarchs going to run their super yachts? On whale blubber? Oil garchs and Gasgarchs hide money from Grannygarchs! Grannygarchs have revenge! True Eskimos run kayaks on whale blubber anyway!

#dmitryrogozin
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 15
Compound interest favors the old.

these dreams
are becoming 
nightmares
i did see a role that i was interested
in and i don't know what to do.

#grannygarch
#GILFconspiracy
#kungpaoCougars

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 18
Do you approve of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor?

Yes   1%
No    0%
1 votes

In fact, I want to clerk for Justice Sotomayor, and when I'm on the U.S. Supreme Court, I'll opine conservative views with more bravado than Scalia AND take Justice Sotomayor to the Ballet!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 18
Do you approve of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor?

Yes   1%
No    0%
1 votes

In fact, I want to clerk for Justice Sotomayor, and when I'm on the Supreme Court, I'll opine conservative views with more bravado than Scalia AND take Justice Sotomayor to the Ballet!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 18
Do you approve of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor?

Yes   1%
No    0%
1 votes

In fact, I want to clerk for Justice Sotomayor, and when I'm on the supreme court, I'll opine conservative views with more bravado than Scalia AND take Justice Sotomayor to the Ballet!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 17
Do you approve of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor?
Yes
1%
no
0%
0 votes
4 minutes left

in fact. i want to clerk for Justice Sotomayor, and when I'm on the supreme court, i'll opine conservative views with more bravado than Scalia, AND take Sotomayor to the Ballet!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
when every problem you've  ever faced 
is a matter of food and shelter, every 
solution is a hammer and sickle

#vladimirputin
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

it was something
that used to make me
happy but the longer
this goes on the worse
things get.

May 23
when every problem you've  ever faced 
is a matter of food and shelter, every 
solution is a hammer and sickle

#liberatetheproletariat
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 22
I knew it! I was going to get in trouble for that poem. Oh well, I guess I won't be freezing to death in St. Petersburg this summer!

#VladimirPutin 
#SergeiLavrov
#StateDept
#USDepartmentofState

https://mid.ru/ru/maps/us/1814243/
yeah i really feel bad
about this whole disaster
this pending disaster
this impending disaster
things are falling apart.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
That guy wanted a whole. fucking. dollar. for my student subscription. i offered the old man 99 cents, but he wouldn't budge a single American inch.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
I honestly think that the reason Rupert Murdoch bought MySpace was to stiff me out of my poems, because I stiffed him on my Wall Street Journal: Student Edition subscription fees.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
I read somewhere that it's actually possible to: request your file, or whatever, from any entity that collects your data, and I think that the process is similar to a Freedom of Information Act Request, but I never got around to doing that.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
I tried a number of different things to get my old MySpace account back, including reactivating old email addresses, but even that didn't work. and then I think I tried to find my own Myspace page using some internet archive, that didn't work either.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
What do I remember about MySpace? well. I actually left my page as Vanilla as possible, but I think that my MySpace blog was kind of epic. In fact I've tried at least a few times to track down my old MySpace Blogs.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 24
🦑fish are eaten⛵and pies are🐙
made from the guts of🛶so many
fish and🐚shells are collected🛸from
who and whatever🐌 has them they came🚀

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 24
That guy wanted a whole. fucking. dollar. for my student subscription. I offered the old man 99 cents, but he wouldn't budge a single Australian inch.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 24
I honestly think that the reason Rupert Murdoch bought MySpace was to stiff me out of my poems, because I stiffed him on my Wall Street Journal: Student Edition subscription fees.
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 24
That 250 USD Meningitis vaccine better save me 25000 inflation adjusted USD in healthcare related expenses.
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 24
What Bumble had that the other dating apps didn't was a lifetime subscription option: none of the Match Group products had one, so the only person in the Dating Industrial Complex who knows how to press the Net Present Value button works at Bumble INC.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 24
What I liked about Bumble over the other dating apps was that it had a lifetime subscription option: none of the Match Group products had that, so the only person in the Dating Industrial Complex who know how to press the NPV button works at Bumble INC.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 24
What I liked about Bumble over the other dating apps was that it had a lifetime subscription option: none of the Match Group products had that, so the only person in the Dating Industrial Complex who know how to press the NPV button works at Bumble.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
A few years ago I was at the bar, and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian conspiracy, and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians, insectilians, or robotilians.
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
A few years ago I was at the bar, and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian conspiracy, and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt, about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians, insectilians, or robotilians.
One of my favorite artifacts was a codex of invoices and annotations from Prince Antiochus I to his father Emperor Seleucus I asking for tax credits for his latest infrastructure project, as well as inquiries regarding qualified tax deductions for his public education project.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 25
When I lived at the Vatican City I amassed a decent collection of artifacts from the Selucid Dynasty; Saddam Hussein sent a diplomatic mission to have my collection repatriated; I insisted I had clear title dating to Mehmet II, and his actions would be construed as expropriation.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 25
When I think about my time at the Vatican City: I remember having amassed a pretty decent collection of artifacts from the Selucid Dynasty, but Saddam Hussein sent a diplomatic mission to have my entire collection expropriated; I insisted I had clear title dating to Mehmet II.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 25
There won't be a Real Housewives of the Vatican City because 180,000 USD in annual disposal income wouldn't be sufficient to support a spouse, a humble cleric could buy maybe two books a year, from Sotheby's, on that salary.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 25
Pope Francis also made a comment about declining birthrates, he said something along the lines of: people who don't start families are self-indulgent, and I thought; he's right, median per capita income in the Vatican City is 180,000 USD, and none of those guys have families.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 25
Pope Francis also made a comment about declining birthrates. He said something along the lines of: people who don't start families are self-indulgent, and I thought: he's right, median per capita income in the Vatican City is 180,000 USD, and none of those guys have families.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 25
Pope Francis also made a comment about declining birthrates. He said something along the lines of: people who don't start families are self-indulgent, and I thought: he's right, median per capita income in the Vatican City is like 180,000 USD, and none of those guys have kids.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

It's just that i really
cannot believe that
disaster is already
here but it's not like
i didn't see this coming.

May 25
Years ago I was at a bar and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian🐊🦖 conspiracy and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians🐙🦑, insectilians🦋🐞, or robotilians🤖🖥️.
#DanishCookieUXorious


Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
Prince Antiochus I consulted the Oracle at of Apollo at Delphi, the Oracle of Tiresias at Thebes, and the Oracle of Artemis at Halicarnassus to determine if it would be suitable, and compliant to establish an:

ORACLE! OF! PROMETHEUS! 
AT! ANTIOCH!

DUN! DUN! DUN!
THEYsaidYES
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
... but the clever young prince: Prince Antiochus I, no less! would not be had! What Prince Antiochus I had found after extensive scrutinization was a subclause designating ecclesiastical constructions as infrastructure, and  so Prince Antiochus I developed a plot of his own!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
what Emperor Seleucus I and Pharaoh Ptolemy II had in mind was to undercut Prince Antiochus I by composing a warrant of attainder expressing a prohibition on subsidies for any academic edifices north of the Nile, or west of the Euphrates, stopping any Academy of Antioch.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
you see, there was something conspiratorial afoot between Emperor Seleucus I and Pharaoh Ptolemy II. Seleucus intended to create a codex collection at Seleucia, and Ptolemy: a scriptorium magnus at Alexandria, neither had any intention of being eclipsed by Prince Antiochus I.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
anyway, no one said that eating the fruit from the Tree of Knowledge would bring you anywhere nice, now did it? So, after Prince Antiochus I petitioned Pharaoh Ptolemy II for funds to subsidize the Academy of Antioch, Pharaoh Ptolemy II declined, citing a project of his own.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

i don't know what
on earth to do.
this isn't going well

May 26
anyway, no one said that eating the fruit from the Tree of Knowledge would bring you anywhere nice, now did it? So, after Prince Antiochus I petitioned Pharaoh Ptolemy II for funds to subsidize the Academy of Antioch, Pharaoh Ptolemy declined citing a project of his own.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
and if anyone brings up the Real Housewives again, or anything else for that matter, while I'm discussing this seminal revelation of my findings of the Successor States, I will totally block you!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
When I think about the Real Housewives Franchise it make me sick! There are more pressing issues in the world right now! Especially my Twitter diatribe on taxation during the Diodochi Epoch!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 26

not really ready for 
whatever it is
that is coming next
just around
the corner
two write-ups and
now a suspension.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 27
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 27
Okay, so here's a serious solution to the mass casualty incidents that happen incessantly in the United States: let's round up all the serial killers and mass murderers and other violent sociopaths, and have them fight Vladimir Putin. They did it in StarCraft.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
One of the issues I have is that I grew up in San Jose, California during the Information Age, and as a result, I have an inability to comprehend what a violent crime is. I grew up thinking the Incident at Littleton, Colorado was some kind of artifact of cinematography.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
One of the issues I have is that I grew up in San Jose, California during the Information Age, and as a result, I have an inability to comprehend what a violent crime is. I grew up thinking the Incident at Littleton, Colorado was some kind of Cinematic Production.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
One of the issues I have is that I grew up in San Jose, California during the Information Age? and as a result, I have an inability to comprehend what a violent crime is? I grew up thinking the Incident at Littleton, Colorado was some kind of Hollywood Production?
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
One of the issues I have is that I grew up in San Jose, California during the Information Age, and as a result, I have an inability to comprehend what a violent crime is. I grew up thinking the Incident at Littleton, Colorado was some kind of Hollywood Production.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
One of the issues I have is that I grew up in San Jose, California during the Information Age, and as a result, I have an inability to comprehend what a violent crime is? I grew up thinking the Incident at Littleton, Colorado was some kind of Hollywood Production.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
and that's how the:
Oracle of Prometheus at Antioch in honor of Prince Antiochus I, Summa Magnificarum 

was established.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
and that's how the:
Oracle of Prometheus at Antioch in honor of Prince Antiochus I, Summa Magnificarum was established.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
Prince Antiochus I consulted the Oracle of Apollo at Delphi, the Oracle of Tiresias at Thebes, and the Oracle of Artemis at Halicarnassus to determine if it would be suitable and compliant to establish an:
ORACLE! OF! PROMETHEUS! 
AT! ANTIOCH!

DUN! DUN! DUN!
THEY SAID YES
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
Prince Antiochus I consulted the Oracle at of Apollo at Delphi, the Oracle of Tiresias at Thebes, and the Oracle of Artemis at Halicarnassus to determine if it would be suitable, and compliant to establish an:

ORACLE! OF! PROMETHEUS! 
AT! ANTIOCH!
DUN! DUN! DUN!
THEYsaidYES
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 

not having the same feelings that
 you have, and for not having
 feelings like your feelings.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
when we meet in-person
and I'm not as tall of a person
as you would be satisfied with.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

i don't know
what the heck to do
or where the heck
to look for a new 
position in the
event that I get canned.

May 30
I feel like less of a person
when my vacations don't
meet your expectations of
what a vacation should be.

I feel like less of a person when
my occupation doesn't meet
your expectations of what an
occupation should be.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.

#cyberinsecurities
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person
who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
Relocation:
I'm always prepared to relocate on short notice. I keep enough money on hand to pay early lease / utility termination fees. I keep things boxed intending to mail them to any potential new residential location.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I'm aware of the difference between patents and copyrights, but there isn't a LinkedIn section that allows me to list Copyrights, or Trademarks.
I think that LinkedIn should have a generalized Registered Intellectual Property Section.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
anyway, i don't know if you have any Danish Cookie scented quilts. or anything. but um. there might be a premium attached to that. i'd buy one, but i didn't see an OnlyFans link on your linktree.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
yeah, honestly, i'd just sell everything and buy new stuff when you get to your new city.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
and think about this: since you are such an amazing craftswoman, you can probably get an Etsy premium, or creative-unique-cool-stuff premium for your stuff. and then just make new stuff when you get to your new place.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
but in some ways. the easiest thing to do: it might be easiest just to sell whatever you aren't really emotionally attached to, and buy new stuff online using your new residence as the ship-to location

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
the stuff you need now, you can take with you, and it won't cost anything above what you're already spending getting to your new place: whatever you're currently spending on gas or plane tickets.
#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
you can separate stuff you need now, from stuff you will eventually need over the following months. the now stuff you can take with you, the later stuff you can ship to yourself as needed at a later point in time.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
since you make quilts you can probably ship most things in a bag, like just wrap whatever you want to ship in a quilt, put it in a bag, then ship it to your new residence.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
Relocation:
One issue with banker boxes is that they really are kind of expensive in comparison to regular boxes. I think price vs utility can effect the way a person experiences a product.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
Relocation:
I renewed my current lease about two months ago for another year, but for some reason I'm kind of always in panic mode. I bought banker boxes but they really aren't suitable for shipping even if decent for storage.
#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
anyway, Paul, I still haven't gotten over her after all these years. If you want to, you can meet me in Kansas, and we'll fight over her, fists only, as in: paper, scissors, rock. 

Dwight D. Eisenhower Presidential Library & Museum, 200 S E 4th St, Abilene, KS 67410
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
but I guess timing is everything, as a suitor, and as a progenitor. She never said anything to me about having a Paul, ever. I was working as a fry cook, my shirts covered in grease, day after day. Only thing she ever said was, was: "I've never seen such hideous shirts!"
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
there were other opportunities at the time, in fact, Ferdinand Marcos was offering a one way ticket to the bourgeoisie, fully funded by California Boy Ronald Regan himself! I couldn't do it though: my dick was just too fucking big! So, I went to Stalingrad instead!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
but um, I didn't know she met someone. Five kids? Lucky guy. Unfortunately for me, I was fighting the Wehrmacht in Stalingrad while Pretty Boy Pablo was flirting with the ladies!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
Is being charged with a DUI the same as being credited with a DUI? I wonder if he'll ultimately be debited with a DUI? Do you have to be credited with a DUI before being Debited with a DUI? I've never had a DUI.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
A Twitter catfish posts risqué photographs and actual perverts ask to meet up, sad truth: 
I tried that approach on 
Snapchat and it didn't seem 
to achieve anything, nothing!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

it's a lot to keep
up with and honestly,
it's not something that i can
or even plan to keep
up with. ever.

May 30
No two days are alike
and every day brings new 
surprises and uncertainties.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
Residents from the complex are swimming in the pool the weather 
is hot, the water is cool.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I think that I have a tendency
to say things that I shouldn't,
and once things are digital,

they're never forgotten:
let's hope that no one has been
reading these.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

it goes around in circles
and it doesn't change
the way it moves
because it moves
but it is fixed in place.
 
May 30
I'm watching the ceiling fan
spin around and waft hot and
humid air around my room.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I think that I'm not
really interested in things
other than basics.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I'm not really a
leftist except for those times
when the ladies are.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
well, I made it almost as far as Oklahoma City, OK. I don't think I'll make it to Abilene, KS. Let's just say you win, Paul, and you can keep Nancy! As for paper📜scissors ✂️rock 🥌, see attachment below: Rock!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

it just isn't really going well
all access pass to the booty.
 
May 30
I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.

#cyberinsecurities
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

maybe you are less
happy than you were
a minute ago
and now these are
worse off than they were
not too recently.

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
A Twitter catfish posts risque photographs and actual perverts
ask to meet up, sad truth: 
I tried that approach on 
Snapchat and it didn't seem 
to achieve anything, nothing!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 

not having the same precepts that
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 
not having the same feelings that
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 
not having the same feelings that
 you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
when we meet in-person
and I'm not as tall of a person
as you would be satisfied with.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
when my vacations don't
meet your expectations of
what a vacation should be.

I feel like less of a person when
my occupation doesn't meet
your expectations of what an
occupation should be.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious

nothing helps
and nothing gets
worse and how can you
say that the roundness
is not where happiness
comes from.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30
I want thoughts as 
complex as your thoughts
feelings as deep 
as your feelings
insecurities as trivial
as your insecurities
hobbies as bougie
as your hobbies
tastes as sophisticated 
as your tastes
and problems as 
first-world as yours

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30
I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions you have, and for 

not having the same precepts
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 
not having the same precepts
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30
Relocation:

I renewed my current lease about two months ago for another year, but for some reason I'm kind of always in panic mode. I bought banker boxes but they really aren't suitable for shipping even if decent for storage.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30
Relocation:

I'm always prepared to relocate on short notice. I keep enough money on hand to pay early lease / utility termination fees. I keep things boxed intending to mail them to any potential new residential location.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I'm aware of the difference between patents and copyrights, but there isn't a LinkedIn section that allows me to list Copyrights, or Trademarks.
I think that LinkedIn should have a generalized Registered Intellectual Property Section.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30
the stuff you need now, you can take with you, and it won't cost anything above what you're already spending getting to your new place: whatever you're currently spending on gas or plane tickets.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
you can separate stuff you need now, from stuff you will eventually need over the following months. the now stuff you can take with you, the later stuff you can ship to yourself as needed at a later point in time.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
since you make quilts you can probably ship most things in a bag, like just wrap whatever you want to ship in a quilt, put it in a bag, then ship it to your new residence.

...







































































i dont know what to do. im just kind of not happy. i dont. know. what would help me out.

what's on my mind?

i don't understand it.

okay. so what i want to know is. how does an emphasis. so. how does the individualized projects / team projects dichotomy reconcile itself with the work from home (WFH) / return to the office (RTO) dichotomy? and. i'm not trying to suggest.

anyway. i think that i've come with a solution to. like. how to respond. to any kind of. anyway. i'm not really going to worry about this for now because. i'm really not in that line of work anyway. and i have no intention of pursuing that line of work.

when i think about this. i just really don't want to suggest anything. i don't want to bring up anything that could. like. challenge the work from home (WFH) movement. i don't really want to say anything that would suggest that i'm anti-work-from-home, or anything. because.

and then, let's suppose hybrid-work environments. how do you hybridize individualized projects and team projects? what is the industry jargon for hybridized individualized collaboration work?

okay. i'll just take a position. if the team is the be all and end all of a project, then (RTO) would be optimal, wouldn't it? because you would have that additional layer of in-person collaboration that you just wouldn't get from tele-conferencing.

okay. so here. i have an idea for the. well. here's the thing. there are arguments for both sides of the return to the office (RTO) / work from home (WFH) argument.

one issue. one idea is that the (WFH) movement is a conspiracy on the part of the collaboration software industrial complex, how do we know this: cui bono! and, you could also say that, anyone who returns to the office (RTO) is, by definition, a team player, even if the person is a total introvert.

honestly, what side am i on? honestly: cui bono! i benefit most from (WFH) because i really don't like traffic. like really. why is there so much traffic. it's a car maker conspiracy! yeah. that's full disclosure.

and. yeah. that was really more thinking than i wanted to do after reading a short tweet and a few supporting tweets. 

i want to say that. i'm probably going to stay off of twitter for the time being.

i'm fucking tired.

alright. i'm feeling better. but. well. i wanted to say: who knows how long this will last. but. i don't want to think that way. i want to think. things are okay right now. and i'm sure they'll get better. i'm sure that things will continue to improve.

...











I'm in fucking Nashville.
it's a constant recalibration of what i need to do. filing for unemployment is a total waste of time. filing an unemployment insurance claim is a total waste of time. my claim never gets approved. nightmare. so what the hell do i do?

There is an issue of. i need to have enough student loan money to cover living expenses. i really don't want to resort to taking out private fucking student loans.

this is a nightmare. i think that i'll either. i think that i'll file the unemployment claim. and the disability claim.

i'm looking at my electricity bill. 55 fucking kilowatt hours! 10 dollars and 55 fucking cents. i'm home all the time now. so. i just have to figure out what the hell to do over the next few. hell. there really is no telling how long this is going to take. to find work.

if i do have to relocate. yeah. i don't really know.

i don't know if i should file an additional unemployment claim or what.

large butts. are part of the large butt industrial complex. small butts. are part of the small butt industrial complex. there are different industries. and there are different industrial complexes. that's just more or less the way that it is. that is more or less the way that it goes. there is something that i was thinking about.

sometimes designs put us at odds with one another. sometimes designs intentionally put us at odds with one another. i get that quiet spaces are needed. i remember. i found it difficult to accept a work from home position. because. me neighborhood was just too noisy at the time. it was hard to accept calls. it was hard to concentrate on work. it was hard to focus. sometimes it can be hard to focus. sometimes it can be hard to get things done when it's noisy. does it really enhance your concentration. well. who know. i do. i really do need to make a living. and. right now. i just don't think that i can do that. 

i think. it's a conspiracy on the part of the sell things industrial complex. i think that it's part of the industrial goods industrial complex. you have a problem. and we have the solution. i do not want all old things. i want all new things. i don't want a single new thing. i want all old things. i do not want anything other than high prices antiques that are sold by the most respectable antique dealers. and that's the only thing that i want. antiques. antiques. respectable. respectable. 

i remember. there were a few times when i worked in an office setting. and. it was noisy. and. in those cases. i was the noisy one.

i'm trying to compile my posts for Letters from Sanford Street. and this is the kind of thing that will take some time. what else was i trying to do? well. there was something that i needed to work on, but for some reason. it seems to have slipped my mind. i don't know how to deal with this kind of thing. it's possible that. he might just be trying to get an interview done or something. i have no idea. but he just left. and now this is easier.

i get. i understand that we don't always have our own private work spaces. we don't all have our own offices. and. these quite spaces are really needed. i get that.

part of the reason that i do conduct business. i do work from home when as far as work pertains to Chestnut + Hazel. is because i really don't have money for an office. not right now. any maybe the work from home thing does come with opportunities that can change things.

i think about the people who started businesses in their dorm room. or people who started businesses in their garage.

it doesn't take long for quiet spaces to become loud spaces. quiet spaces. everyone needs them. i think this guy is from the walking advertisement industrial complex.

i have to look for something. i have to look for a position. not because i need the money, but because it's relevant to what i want to accomplish. but the only think i really want to accomplish is to have more money.

i liquidated nearly everything in my robinhood account. i don't think that i would have ever done that. really. i thought that i would just be able to hold down a job. but i actually can't. i can't hold down a job. everyone picks on me. and this is true no matter where i work.

i have to think about what my next moves are. because this is a nightmare. i don't know if i'll be able to find work. or what. or what kind of work or employment i should be looking for.

alright. well I guess that's over. what a total nightmare. but right now. i really don't know what to do for work.

it wasn't too far back that i really felt that things were getting better. but they continue to be a disaster. what the hell do i need to do.

These last few days have been extremely challenging for me. Everything feels like a kind of sensation overload, and I have to look for work, again.

make a reference to the original. make an attribution. and make a contribution by making a slight change.

think about the original sin of mankind. make a slight change. then make a contribution of your own. you'll have fun. but this assertion is not guaranteed.

have you ever tasted how so many things taste similar to one another. this one iPhone had a very similar taste to this generic smart phone i was licking earlier. can you taste the difference? i couldn't! i'm embarrassed and i feel like i have no taste.

maybe we can collect all of the artifacts that the people all over the universe are collecting. if others collect them. then we too should collect them. in many ways. this is a good thing. in other ways. it's something other than a good thing.

there is an ongoing twitter conflict between the freudians and the hubbardians. this sort of thing will never end. is it all in your mind. or is it all in your head. this debate will never end.

orange juice is made from squeezed oranges. lemonade is made from squeeze lemons.

there really is no such thing as a free lunch. but these tweet is free. 

eat my tweet.

i met a man from an antique land who said. that upon his ball sack. these cock rings appear.

i told him it's wrong to use a cock ring for his ball sack. it's better to use a ball ring.

what color are your balls. well. you wouldn't know unless you opened your scrotum and checked.

and don't think you can trick me by painting your balls. or dying them red. neptune is an even bluer big ball with a ball ring.

sputnik was the first man made ball of steel to circle an even greener. and even bluer ball. the earth is a big blue ball.

think of the white ball. and think of the red ball. tonight. we dine at the pub. tonight we play pool.

balls. inside of an even bigger. translucent ball. and your balls are numbered. 

because we're playing bingo. what did you think we were doing.
balls. inside of a netted sack.
i think. therefore. that these are onions.

and on that pedestal. 
massive stone balls appear.

and on those pedestals. these massive stone balls appear.
do they have names. I don't think they do.
i think. i don't really know. spam. maybe. ham. maybe. green apples and spam. what do you think.

large balls. stone balls. concrete spheres mounted on cubes outside of city hall.
everything is a headache. and everything else is a nightmare.
but everything is kind of uncertain. onions and maybe some kind of sauce.
pencils and pens and notebooks. a laptop a tablet. maybe a new phone.

pencils and pens and notebooks. a laptop a tablet. maybe a new phone.
well. i guess she's off the market now. and i guess its no skin off my cock.
she said something about the beach and a fish net g string and a large otter. and sand. it gets everywhere. even a woman's crotch. and even a one as unbelievably tight as it gets.

well. um. if you want to know the truth. i'm actually part of the team investigating you know who. and. it. um. it honestly felt like she had sand in her crotch. fine grain sand. gently abrasive. good. but still. she had a sand crotch.


I think of iteration in engineering
as being similar to evolution in biology
one benefit to smaller teams and individualized
development projects is that the the iterations
can progress in isolation, and the products created
iterate divergent from a kind of mainstream,

alright. done. i really didn't give the computer shopping thing too much thought. or time. but i need to also look at laptop computers. i think during this search. i focused on tablet computers.

is there anything that I need to do? yes! okay. so I remember. i have to look at computers for school. i eventually bought a new one and I really like it, it's faster than my old one, and has more features and it's nice.
what the hell was it that i was thinking about? I was thinking about food, and how I don't really get enough to eat. I have been starving for over a year, and I am hungry.
is there anything that i need to do today? i checked my UTA email, but i don't think that i would have had a response over the weekend.

is there anything that I need to fucking do today? i spent most of the day goofing off. i stayed up late the previous night and I've hardly had any sleep. well. except for the fact that i slept for most of the day today. but before i slept most of the day today. i didn't have much sleep.
it's hot. and I'm tired. the Hot dog is mightier than the Kielbasa. hehehe.

the things i needed to look up were: aggregate loan limits / annual limits / and interest rate / that information turned out to be easiest to find in the master promissory note.

here's the thing. i remember reading this shit already. and the information i found was basically stuff that i really remember reading the first time / the issue was that i found it difficult to look up / shit / distractions / okay so i found the information i was looking for / and / it turned out to be information that i remember reading when i signed the master promissory note / what made me want to double check / i don't remember / some issue or another.

so i guess that turned out to be easier than I thought. so. what to do next?
i need to figure out how to find my pay stubs from work.
some of the things that
are made to be hard are
also easy to deal with when
you figure out how to deal with them.

but one thing that i found is that you can use your student loan money to purchase a computer.
So I figured out what the issue is. The easiest way to figure out what I was looking for, was to read the master promissory note.
The simplified version of the loan details. the button click. scroll around stuff. surprisingly. is actually more difficult for me to understand
I figured this out.

but I guess I tried. I did put
forth my best effort and it
didn't really pay off in the way
that I thought it would now.
and now it is something that
cost me a grip of money.

The more problems I face, the more adaptations I need to make. It's getting to be too much. sometimes. nightmare.
When I start to feel distracted. I start throwing things away.
I know how to deal with this: I have ear plugs.
what do I have to deal with? i really have to read about the student loans stuff.
Let's think. let's remember what happened today. i went to the restaurant to get something to eat, then i went to the library, it was too noisy, so, i figured i wouldn't get anything done, so i went back home, where I'm at right now.

What am I dealing with here? I tried to get stuff done at the library. Trying to figure out student loans is something of a headache, and requires quite a bit of concentration, but, there were just sort of a lot of distractions at the library. This is usually how it goes.

you can separate stuff you need now, from stuff you will eventually need over the following months. the now stuff you can take with you, the later stuff you can ship to yourself as needed at a later point in time.
since you make quilts you can probably ship most things in a bag, like just wrap whatever you want to ship in a quilt, put it in a bag, then ship it to your new residence.

One issue with banker boxes is that they really are kind of expensive in comparison to regular boxes. I think price vs utility can effect the way a person experiences a product.

I renewed my current lease about two months ago for another year, but for some reason I'm kind of always in panic mode. I bought banker boxes but they really aren't suitable for shipping even if decent for storage.

and you can't be the bad
one because you have been
so good to so many people.

anyway, Paul, I still haven't gotten over her after all these years. If you want to, you can meet me in Kansas, and we'll fight over her, fists only, as in: paper, scissors, rock. 
Dwight D. Eisenhower Presidential Library & Museum, 200 S E 4th St, Abilene, KS 67410

but I guess timing is everything, as a suitor, and as a progenitor. She never said anything to me about having a Paul, ever. I was working as a fry cook, my shirts covered in grease, day after day. Only thing she ever said was, was: "I've never seen such hideous shirts!"

there were other opportunities at the time, in fact, Ferdinand Marcos was offering a one way ticket to the bourgeoisie, fully funded by California Boy Ronald Regan himself! I couldn't do it though: my dick was just too fucking big! So, I went to Stalingrad instead!

then there were the times
that we went over to the 
side of the road to see the
roadside flowers and they
turned out to be very nice.

but um, I didn't know she met someone. Five kids? Lucky guy. Unfortunately for me, I was fighting the Wehrmacht in Stalingrad while Pretty Boy Pablo was flirting with the ladies!

Is being charged with a DUI the same as being credited with a DUI? I wonder if he'll ultimately be debited with a DUI? Do you have to be credited with a DUI before being Debited with a DUI? I've never had a DUI.

A Twitter catfish posts risqué photographs and 
actual perverts ask to meet up, sad truth: 
I tried that approach on 
Snapchat and it didn't seem 
to achieve anything, nothing!

No two days are alike
and every day brings new 
surprises and uncertainties.
Residents from the complex are 
swimming in the pool the weather 
is hot, the water is cool.
I think that I have a tendency
to say things that I shouldn't,
and once things are digital,

they're never forgotten:
let's hope that no one has been
reading these.

think about new things
to think about and new
thoughts that do not 
bore you to death.

I'm watching the ceiling fan
spin around and waft hot and
humid air around my room.

I think that I'm not
really interested in things
other than basics.

I'm not really a
leftist except for those times
when the ladies are.

well, I made it almost as far as Oklahoma City, OK. I don't think I'll make it to Abilene, KS. Let's just say you win, Paul, and you can keep Nancy! As for paper📜scissors ✂️rock 🥌, see attachment below: Rock!

I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

i don't really know what to 
do about work. I took some
overtime, but I'm at 2 write-ups
and now I'm on suspension
for the meantime. Jesus. things
are not going well for me.
who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.

I was trying to respond to #cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious you but you didn't seem to
catch on to me trying to write to you
trying to talk to you and trying to figure
out what you're looking for.

and you can send me a naughty
picture of your body and
I will enjoy looking at it
I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.

#cyberinsecurities are those things
that make me think that
Kenneth Larot Yamat
is the best of the best and
makes for a good @KennethLYamat
conversation· with someone new.
dated on May 30th when you
posted a new post.

I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.

A Twitter catfish posts risqué 
photographs and actual perverts
ask to meet up, sad truth: 

I tried that approach on 
Snapchat and it didn't seem 
to achieve anything, nothing!

I tried to get
something good for something
amazing, I sent to box of chocolates
and there was no response.

I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 

not having the same precepts that
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 

not having the same feelings that
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 

not having the same feelings that
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

I feel like less of a person
when we meet in-person
and I'm not as tall of a person
as you would be satisfied with.

the place turned into kind of a bad
place to be, filled with jerks and
self-absorbed punks and people
who basically do things that are
silly.

I feel like less of a person
when my vacations don't
meet your expectations of
what a vacation should be.

I feel like less of a person when
my occupation doesn't meet
your expectations of what an
occupation should be.

I want thoughts as 
complex as your thoughts
feelings as deep 
as your feelings
insecurities as trivial
as your insecurities
hobbies as bougie
as your hobbies
tastes as sophisticated 
as your tastes
and problems as 
first-world as yours

I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions you have, and for 

not having the same precepts
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 

not having the same precepts
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

Relocation:
I renewed my current lease about two months ago for another year, but for some reason I'm kind of always in panic mode. I bought banker boxes but they really aren't suitable for shipping even if decent for storage.

you ended up in a new town.
you ended up in a new city
and met people who were new
to you and they were all nice people.

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 39
What's up? Well. I bought a few lottery tickets. Not in the bizzare way i thought of and mentioned in a previous post. What i did was buy 5 near my apartment. And 3 near my work. And that's it. Buying lottery tickets has always seemed like a silly thing to do. I never win. Not the jackpot anyway.

Buying lottery tickets. Trying to get published. Both of these things seem like silly ideas to me. And neither of them have ever really worked.

I have this funny idea for a series of poems though.

innocuous post 40
Photo dump
i thought
of different
screenshots
stuff that
was really coll [cool] and
this is where you are

are you wearing panties right now?
because it smells nicer in here
that it does in any other place
i've ever been in my entire life.

the two straddles the following counties
caldwell county
clinton county
dekalb county
daviess county
but I wonder if I'm using the word 
straddles correctly? do you think
that I should be using the word BUTTER?
I WON'T USE THE WORD BUTTER!

Relocation:
I'm always prepared to relocate on short notice. I keep enough money on hand to pay early lease / utility termination fees. I keep things boxed intending to mail them to any potential new residential location.

I'm aware of the difference between patents and copyrights, but there isn't a LinkedIn section that allows me to list Copyrights, or Trademarks.
I think that LinkedIn should have a generalized Registered Intellectual Property Section.
the stuff you need now, you can take with you, and it won't cost anything above what you're already spending getting to your new place: whatever you're currently spending on gas or plane tickets.

you can separate stuff you need now, from stuff you will eventually need over the following months. the now stuff you can take with you, the later stuff you can ship to yourself as needed at a later point in time.

since you make quilts you can probably ship most things in a bag, like just wrap whatever you want to ship in a quilt, put it in a bag, then ship it to your new residence.
Relocation:
One issue with banker boxes is that they really are kind of expensive in comparison to regular boxes. I think price vs utility can effect the way a person experiences a product.
yeah, honestly, i'd just sell everything and buy new stuff when you get to your new city.
and think about this: since you are such an amazing craftswoman, you can probably get an Etsy premium, or creative-unique-cool-stuff premium for your stuff. and then just make new stuff when you get to your new place.

but in some ways. the easiest thing to do: it might be easiest just to sell whatever you aren't really emotionally attached to, and buy new stuff online using your new residence as the ship-to location
anyway, i don't know if you have any Danish Cookie scented quilts. or anything. but um. there might be a premium attached to that. i'd buy one, but i didn't see an OnlyFans link on your linktree.

there was something strange
going on in that place some of
the people were a total nightmare
and they were all the best people
most of them anyway.

and this is kind of why i'm somewhat insensitive to current events. there was actually a spike in mass shootings in the DFW area at gentlemen's clubs, and, i feel like i'm the only person who followed the issue.
A Twitter catfish posts risqué
photographs and actual perverts
ask to meet up, sad truth: 

I tried that approach on 
Snapchat and it didn't
accomplish anything, nothing!
I think that the Flying Dutchman should by: A.P. Møller – Mærsk A/S + Vale S.A. + PayPal Holdings, Inc. and do it before 2031, the Year of the Boar. Buying PayPal Holdings, Inc. should be called: The Reconquista.

I'm curious to know how you settled the logistical aspects of relocation: did you sell everything? intending just to buy new things in your new city?
I think that the Flying Dutchman should by: A.P. Møller – Mærsk A/S + Vale S.A. + PayPal Holdings, Inc. and do it before 2031, the Year of the Boar. Buying PayPal Holdings, Inc. should be called: The Reconquista.
A Twitter catfish posts risqué 
photographs  and actual perverts 
ask to meet up, data driven results: 

I tried macking ladies approach on 
Snapchat and after macking 100
beezies I liquidated zero peezies!

I'm trying to think about what
really needs to be done in order
for me to figure this out
more work and a new role and
stuff.

A Twitter catfish posts risqué 
photographs  and actual perverts 
ask to meet up, sad truth: 

I tried macking ladies approach on 
Snapchat and it didn't seem 
to achieve anything, nothing!
In the CCP uses the Yuan (¥) or the Kublai Khan Dollar, the USA uses the USD ($), or, the Ameri Khan Dollar!

A dress from second-hand 
store fabric that you made: I 
would like first-hand experience 
pulling it off your body!

a phony Twitter catfish posts risqué 
photographs and actual perverts 
ask to meet up, as for me? it's never 
worked. data driven results: 

i tried macking numerous ladies on 
Snapchat and after macking 100
beezies I liquidated zero peezies!

it didn't really matter at that point because
you were already kind of established and
had things that you could and couldn't do.

I think the Flying Dutchman should buy: A.P. Møller – Mærsk A/S + Vale S.A. + PayPal Holdings, Inc. and do it before 2031, the Year of the Boar. The Acquisition of PayPal Holdings, Inc. should be called: The Reconquista.

I'm serious; I'm going to make an envelope called: Danish Cookie Scented Envelopes! What other woman in the Milky Way Galaxy will have an envelope patent named after her?
I think I just got some inspiration.

So I think of the # danishcookieuxorious series as being everything from the end of # putinpullout! to this exact tweet. and i'll register a copyright for # danishcookieuxorious, and then start using some other hashtag.

and then I'm going to copyright the lyrics to song titled: "I'm sorry Ms. Jensen, I'm actually not even lying about my intentions."

in addition to all of that: I'm also going to file a patent for the box that the envelopes are sold in, and the patent is going to be filed as: Danish Cookie Flavored Envelope Scented Boxes.
and I'm also going to file a patent for an envelope called: Danish Cookie Flavored Envelopes! and these won't be self-sealing, you'll have to lick and taste these envelopes!
search engine query: is there anyone doing business as: undressing sluts who're funny? and, am I a slut who's funny? also, is the word: slut, a gender-neutral word? is the word: slut, a gender-neutral pronoun?

innocuous post 41
Good lord. I don't want to do any online dating crap. I really don't. My apartment isnt really well suited for having guests over. I dont have a TV. I don't have a bed. Or a couch. I don't have an internet connection either. I just use my fucking phone. And honestly. I don't want anyone moving in with me either.

I don't want a bed. Or a couch. Or a tv. Or a fucking internet connection.
these are anges of clorishallia
the dordeelians of the sheelasee
tofreenolagonia

innocuous post 42
i really struggled with being. kind of. in a state of emotional despair this morning. this is one of those things. where. i know this goes away after a while. but it's never definite as to when it goes away.

Dating profile deletion
I recently purchased the six month A-List 
package for okcupid, and I'm already 
thinking about mothballing this account.
I don't seem to have much success meeting 
people, and I'm not very interested in having 
long drawn out internet conversations.

I don't anticipate using online dating websites much longer.

innocuous post 43
any clothes
hardly wear
and women who
including naked women
that i am looking at
with all the stuff
my data

wasting
that i am 
i think

i don't know what the future holds. not really.
i don't know what's going to come for me in
the next few weeks. I really don't know.

some of #undressingslutswhorefunny
the women there are really funny and 
they say some of  the silliest things I
can think of a person saying. I #searchenginequery
was looking for something new and
for some reason I couldn't find it. I'm serious
things are starting to fall apart for me.

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 37
somewhere in the ancient fortress town called
fort worth there is a winning lottery
ticket waiting to be purchased from bald
man number eight fourteen, he's soldering

a medieval random number picker
known as The Dart Board of Elysium 
which went downward through history, sticker
covered and glued with glitter and gypsum

to cover a crack in it's backside, and here
today, upon the bald man's desk, it sits,
waiting to reunite the forest's deer
with the savannah's antelope, which pits.

fuck this. the poem is fucking stupid.
i would much rather go right back to bed.

like where the fuck was I going to go
with that deer and antelope shit? who knows?

I was just thinking like. i have three lines 
left and i don't know where to take this damn
metaphor, dumb ass deer, dumb ass lions
stupid fucking dart board glued with green ham

and orange eggs. fuck. i had tacos once 
more today. glorious and crispy ones.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 5:29 PM 

search engine query / is there anyone doing business as / undressing sluts who're funny / and / am I a slut / who's funny / also, is the word / slut / a gender-neutral word? / and / is the word / slut / a gender-neutral pronoun? #undressingslutswhorefunny #searchenginequery but where are they they seem to think about new things. they usually have a whole bunch of new ideas and approaches to life and learning and life and living.

anyway. due to bugetary. and. uh. cash-flow issues. i really haven't ended the # DanishCookieUXorious series yet. in fact. i'll have to file a single copyright for my innocuous posts series, and the # DanishCookieUXorious series in a single submission. #DanishCookieUXorious I shouldn't get to worried about this because there are people who do in fact have it worse that I do, but they were hit by eighteen wheelers.

I think of iteration in engineering
as being similar to evolution in biology
one benefit to smaller teams and individualized
development projects is that the the iterations

can progress in isolation, and the products created
iterate divergent from a kind of mainstream, 
most of the time i only talk to my Weiner 
because my ball sack won't listen to me.
listen to me very carefully you Danish Cookie! 
if anyone suggests that my penis is a single centimeter 
plus or minus seven point five inches they're making a 
defamatory remark: anyone who has licked my 
testicles will provide testimony, under oath.
and I'm kind of ticked off by so many of the
other things there. they irritate me a whole lot.

it's really a strange thing when a guy spends some time alone with his weiner, has a conversation with it, and finds out he and his weiner were both born on exactly the same day.

if you ever develop a fondness for me, Danish Cookie, I want to be called: Phallus Photograph 9000, a penis with whom I share a birthday.

i have this idea for a new element of the bureaucracy: the delegation deliberation committee, where a group of senior members of the leadership clan argue over which junior subordinate assumes the most glorious tasks in future of history.

i have this idea for a new element of the bureaucracy: the delegation deliberation committee, where a group of senior members of the leadership clan decide which junior subordinate assumes the most glorious tasks in future of history.
if you ever develop a fondness for me, Danish Cookie, I want to be called: Phallus Photograph 9000, a penis with whom I share a birthday.
listen to me very carefully you Danish Cookie! if anyone suggests that my penis is a single centimeter plus or minus seven point five inches they're making a defamatory remark: anyone who has licked my penis will provide testimony, under oath.

anyway. due to bugetary. and. uh. cash-flow issues. i really haven't ended the # DanishCookieUXorious series yet. in fact. i'll have to file a single copyright for my innocuous posts series, and the # DanishCookieUXorious series in a single submission. 

search engine query: is there anyone doing business as: undressing sluts who're funny? and, am I a slut who's funny? also, is the word: slut, a gender-neutral word? is the word: slut, a gender-neutral pronoun?

#undressingslutswhorefunny some of the people take all of
#searchenginequery their materials and make new things out
of them and they seem to think that the women, who are funny.

Search Engine Query: has anyone told that fucking world of warcraft cryptocurrency pervert that I haven't been in or attended a warcraft orgy since starcraft3 / StarCraft 3.0 came out?

can she refrain from wearing clothes that
smell deeply of butter?
what is the answer to that? is it butter?
I doubt it, I doubt that butter is 
the answer.

innocuous post 44
do you like screenshots or regular shots?
and if you were to
take pictures of your feet, I 
would look at your feet all day
and I would LOOK AT YOUR: FEET!
BUTTER IS NOT THE ANSWER BABY!!!

innocuous post 45
i went to the buffet today, earlier today, and it was more expensive than i expected. it was dinner, and they had the crab special going on.
innocuous post 46

What. Is. What. Thoughts that occupy my mind. Staying happy isn't easy. Or not always easy. Not very easy. Emotions that sink my heart. Not being unhappy isn't easy. Not very easy. Or not always easy.

innocuous post 47
sometimes i feel sad. but it's kind of on and off. sometimes i get bored. sometimes. and sometimes it's on and off.

my mood isn't exactly up or down right now. i remember in elementary school i went to some kind of math summer school, and one guy referred to something that happened as "Bunk" and I had to ask what he meant by that, and he said "up or down." like the word "bunk" meant "up or down" or something. 

i don't mean that my mood is bunk. i just mean that I'm not happy, really, or unhappy. not at this exact moment or anything.

innocuous post 48
do i really need another desk? i don't think so. i want to get started on this writing crap. i just don't know. once. once i get started. the rest should be kind of easy. i think. i remember writing a series of poems based on someone else's series of poems. and it didn't take long to do. but i really don't think. I'm really not sure if my series was really all that spectacular.

writing a series of poems based on someone else's series of poems was easy. the conceptual part. the thinking part was out of the way. she already did that. my part was just to understand what she was saying, and say it my way.

it's kind of like. painting a painting based on someone else's painting.
for some reason you always come around 
here smelling like a deep buttery kind of
thing. you smell nice, and I really like it
and I think you are one of the better smelling
of the bunch.

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 37
somewhere in the ancient fortress town called
fort worth there is a winning lottery
ticket waiting to be purchased from bald
man number eight fourteen, he's soldering

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 36
i'm hungry right now. tacos again. i want to say fuck. but. i love tacos. cheap ones. i mean. and. well. i guess i mean i like not paying a hell of a lot of money for tacos. or. to be. i like when tacos are. you know. have cost efficiencies. or some shit. yeah. i really do. i was looking at my portfolio. i was shocked by how much. you know. shits down and whatever. the other day i tried to check the status of my unemployment claim. i would only be payment for 3 or 4 weeks, but it was during that period when there was a 600 a week bump.

a medieval random number picker
known as The Dart Board of Elysium 
which went downward through history, sticker
covered and glued with glitter and gypsum

Monday, August 31, 2020
This is where the innocuous post 24
Is posted for your reading enjoyment. could have sworn that I just saw. Someone famous. But maybe it was just. someone normal. 
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:56 PM 

to cover a crack in it's backside, and here
today, upon the bald man's desk, it sits,
waiting to reunite the forest's deer
with the savannah's antelope, which pits.

fuck this. the poem is fucking stupid.
i would much rather go right back to bed.

like where the fuck was I going to go
with that deer and antelope shit? who knows?

Monday, August 31, 2020
I innocuous post 23
good lord. i almost bought 4 more silver coins. i have to be careful not to be ridiculous all the time. well. i didn't do it. i have to remember not to do it later on. i'm just concerned that i might do it later on anyway.

it's almost the end of my work week. yesterday was actually pretty nice, there wasn't much downtime and i stayed busy the entire shift. but at one point it was clear that one of my co-workers was intentionally trying to aggravate me. i argued with him briefly, but i realized it was easier to tell him to find someone else to work with. i was already wrapping up my task, i didn't need his help, and he didn't need to loiter near me if we were going to have trouble getting along.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 7:35 PM

I was just thinking like. i have three lines 
left and i don't know where to take this damn
metaphor, dumb ass deer, dumb ass lions
stupid fucking dart board glued with green ham

and orange eggs. fuck. i had tacos once 
more today. glorious and crispy ones.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 5:29 PM 

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 38
Here were a few ideas that i have about trying this whole writing thing again. like fucking again. i thought i wrote this whole bull-shit writer crap off years. fucking years ago. that two years spent like half a decade ago was. i really think. the last time i took writing serious. i have a few ideas though, and, maybe this time it might work out.

the first idea is that i might keep the things i write unpublished on my blog, or anywhere else, for a while. copyright whatever i have once i'm sure i'm finished with it, then try to sell the work with the copyright to publishers.
the second idea is to take a few pieces that i have and see if there is any interest in funding me or offering an advance on a book of 100 or so poems. i just don't know how any of this works.

Search Engine Query: what the fuck, exactly, is a decentralized network? and will my getting involved result in me being designated creampie master to the danish cookie?
#searchenginequery
nessicito arepas, y papusas tamboen, gorditas, y otros comidas. una cenar tres partes deliciousas
idea for a feature for customer relationship management application / vernacular localization / contingent upon occupation / professional or occupation based localization / for example / cosmetics / pharmaceuticals / beverages / agriculture / munitions / petrochemical / energy

idea for a feature for customer relationship management application / vernacular localization / contingent upon occupation / professional or occupation based localization / for example / cosmetics / pharmaceuticals / beverages / agriculture / munitions / petrochemical / energy
nessicito arepas, y papusas tamboen, gorditas, y otros comidas. una cenar tres partes deliciousas

  Artists & Scientists: 
     Samuel Finley Breese Morse
  Bureaucrats & Legislators: 
     Alexander Hamilton
  Entrepreneurs & Magnates: 
     Éleuthère Irénée du Pont de Nemours
  Strategists & Tacticians: 
     John Charles Frémont

idea for a feature for customer relationship management application / vernacular localization / contingent upon occupation / professional or occupation based localization / for example / cosmetics / pharmaceuticals / beverages / agriculture / munitions / petrochemical / energy
damn it, it's actually: lagartos 

Years ago I was at a bar and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian🐊 conspiracy and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians🐙🦑, insectilians🦋, or robotilians🤖.

quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. los ligartes. mas gigantes.
idea for a feature for customer relationship management application / vernacular localization / contingent upon occupation / professional or occupation based localization / for example / cosmetics / pharmaceuticals / beverages / agriculture / munitions / petrochemical / energy

quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. los ligartes. mas gigantes.
quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. mas gigantes.

Emperor Seleucus I said tax credits would be granted to any infrastructure spending by Prince Antiochus I, provided he inflate his reported expenses by no more than 9% of actual costs incurred, and to seek assistance from his cousin Pharaoh Ptolemy II concerning other expenses.

Vladimir Putin I the Mediocre compares himself to Tsar Peter I the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine I the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short. The Hot Dog is mightier than the Keilbasa!

the third idea is to approach literary agents, or whatever, rather than publishers directly. i don't know how that works either.
i have plenty of stamps.

the last approach that i took was the one i had been doing for years. submit my poems to magazines and see if they could get published, and then. i guess, at that point approach publishers or agents with some kind of accomplishments that would give them a reason to work with me.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 7:15 PM 

Sunday, August 30, 2020
innocuous post 19
i'm cleaning a lot of this stuff up right now. i'm starting to think. maybe. i had an issue. like a mental one. but i already knew that.
these are strange times. i don't know. sometimes. what's true and what isn't.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 7:04 PM 

Sunday, August 30, 2020
innocuous post 20
I think. This fucking music is drowning out my thoughts. So. I should probably take a gew months to work on a personal project. And maybe this will be fun. Maybe it'll just be a fantastic waste of time.
I have an idea for this. Actually. How to do this the right way. I spent plenty of money on other experiments. Why not try this.
I don't know.
My head hurts. The temperature in Arlington was very high. And i forgot to leave my window open, so my apartment was basically a hot house the entire day.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:18 PM 

Monday, August 31, 2020
innocuous post 21
these are
screenshots
of different stuff
that i'm really into
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 5:32 PM

Monday, August 31, 2020
N innocuous post 22
cleaning up my blog here and there. this is a nightmare. there is a shit ton of stuff on here. this could take a long fucking time. like what exactly should i focus on? what exactly should i place priority on? i don't really know. i'm just going down the list, and i guess that's what i'll do.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 6:50 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 15
it's still somewhat hard to sleep during the day. it's just so hot. i found some free classes that i can take, that i think that would kind of be useful. i should buy a pair of headphones. 
for now, as far as finding a second job goes. i think i'll hold off on that for now. even the side hustle stuff. except maybe for selling stuff online. i don't imagine that to be too taxing or draining or anything that will leave me fatigued, but i don't have anything to sell, other than. my used clothes. well. a bunch of other stuff too.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 6:41 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 16
"a single H-6J bomber to [Woody Island] should
not be viewed as a game-changer"
China is going to deploy an HJ bomber to 
Woody Island? of course that's not changing
the game. A BJ-4U Interceptor, however, would
create a big fat load of new problems.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:14 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 17
I don't even know what exactly is on my mind. I really dont. Maybe. I'm almost halfway through my weekend.
What makes the days so long? Lacking that which makes them short. The grief is real. It actually is.
On the ride to work today there was a kind of monsoon. My windshield wipers arent that fast. And i had almost no visibility for several miles. My car is really small and light. So the wind really pushes me around. In high winds i roll my windows down. With the rain it was kind of annoying getting all wet.

Even I can be a total jerk sometimes
Just thinking about
things I've done. before.
But who hasn't been a jerk to me?
everyone has been a jerk to me
at one point or another
and fair is fucking fair.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:59 PM
Sunday, August 30, 2020
innocuous post 18
I don't like way this feels. It's really.
It's an unpleasant emotion. I think
about how some conclusions are silly.
The wrong direction. The wrong path. A link
in a chain of incorrect steps that a 
person makes. That a person is bound by.
And maybe it will all work out some day.
Maybe not in the specific way I
had in mind. Here? or somewhere else? now? or
sometime in the distant future? What's life
really all about? Fulfilling those short
term needs like hunger. How many times I've
stared blankly at a bowl of oatmeal and
said: you're not what I want to eat, my friend.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 12:53 AM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 7
after eating at the buffet i was going to head to my mailbox, but the traffic was terrible, so i figured that i would check it later. i did check it the other night. and really. i probably don't need to check it again for a little while longer.
what was i thinking? the second job stuff, and the side hustle stuff. well. i put most of these ideas to the side for the minute. something came up. and i figured that i would put this other stuff to the side for a while.
if i were to sell stuff online. well. i don't really have anything to sell. other than the stuff i bought already. and really don't need.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 5:41 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 8
I guess these are updates about how things have been for me stock market wise.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 6:03 PM

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 9
I started using youtube music. Google play music is being sunset. Or whatever. So i had to transfer my library from one to the other. The youtube music thing has this radio aspect to it. And that's the main aspect of it. The library is secondary. The problem i have with the radio thing is that i skip tons of songs before i find something i like. Ive always used youtube for music. Or at least more for music than anything else.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 8:47 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 10
Im not hungry. But. I feel like getting something to eat. Or drink.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:09 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 11
Find stuff to do. Nothing exacerbates a bad mood. Nothing exacerbates sadness like hanging out around the house. Like driving around town aimlessly. Like listening to sad music. Or aggressive music.

Maybe i should try doing some dating crap. I'm paid up for okcupid until january. So maybe i should do some dating. But dating is such a distraction. But what im i afraid of being distracted from? It's not like i have some amazing horseshit planned with my life.

Right now. My issue is exactly zits. I sweat non stop in this state. I rarely use acne cream. The tube i have still has a bunch in it. But it bleaches my clothes.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:43 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 12
What's on my mind. Well. Another day. I'm usually alone. Breaking the ice. I don't know how to explain it. For me. There's a kind of uneasiness being around other people. And there's this. Kind of a need to try to be pleasant.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 12:46 AM

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 13
Yelp. It occurred to me that i have to clean up yelp too.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:25 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 14
i went to walmart and bought 13 bottles of diet pepsi in the 2 liter size, and a bottle of dole lemonade in the 2 liter size. i also bought a box of white chocolate macadamia cookies.
and this is probably where this blog. devolves. into a daily list of the exact things i did for any particular day.
maybe it doesn't devolve in that direction. maybe it just changes.
i don't know. 
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 2:18 PM 

Saturday, September 5, 2020
innocuous post 48
do i really need another desk? i don't think so. i want to get started on this writing crap. i just don't know. once. once i get started. the rest should be kind of easy. i think. i remember writing a series of poems based on someone else's series of poems. and it didn't take long to do. but i really don't think. i'm really not sure if my series was really all that spectacular.
writing a series of poems based on someone else's series of poems was easy. the conceptual part. the thinking part was out of the way. she already did that. my part was just to understand what she was saying, and say it my way.
it's kind of like. painting a painting based on someone else's painting.
I wish life were easier. Now. Shoes. So i talked with this shoe repair guy and he said 25 bucks for heel replacement. But did he mean per heel? Or per pair? So i have five shoes in need of heel replacement. Im hoping that it would only cost 65 dollars for all of them. And my mom. My mom is back thank fucking god.

Thursday, August 27, 2020
innocuous post 1
i may have to make some revisions to my. i guess. total online presence. social media and whatever else. i was going to start with pinterest. i turns out i have a different pinterest on my computer. and a different pinterest on my phone.
just to make sure i was using the word innocuous correctly, i looked the word up in the dictionary and came across the word:
anodyne
what i've concluded from the definitions of the two words is that anodyne is different from innocuous in that it refers to intentionally, or deliberately being innocuous.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:11 PM 

i'm not ready for whatever
is about to happen next in 
my life. this is not going well
and I can't believe this is really
happening to me all over again.

Thursday, August 27, 2020
innocuous post 2
i think that i've cleaned up the main social media stuff that i need to. i have a few other things too, i'll get to them soon.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 10:52 PM 

Thursday, August 27, 2020
innocuous post 3
blog page removal. notes from other stuff.
Submit your poetry to Chestnut and Hazel by using the submissions box at the side of the page.
here are more things
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 10:54 PM 

Thursday, August 27, 2020
innocuous post 4
this posts
had a number
of screenshots
of stamps that i wanted to buy, and that I think
i actually eventually purchased.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 11:04 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 5
I'm at the buffet. Eating. Well. Of course I'm eating. I have to check again about the second job stuff. But there are potential issues that may come up if overtime is required at either job. However. There would only be the potential of overlap of shifts one day a week. I have 1 specific 2nd job in mind. And it's the one I'm trying to work out in my head.
My current job and the potential second job are on opposite sides of FT Worth, this isn't necessarily a problem because I live in Arlington, it's in the middle of these two locations.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:16 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 6
Finished lunch. I have to figure something out. Money wise.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:54 PM 

Dating profile deletion
I recently purchased the six month A-List package for okcupid, and I'm already thinking about mothballing this account.
I don't seem to have much success meeting people, and I'm not very interested in having long drawn out internet conversations.
I don't anticipate using online dating websites much longer.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 2:08 PM 

Friday, September 4, 2020
innocuous post 43
any clothes
hardly wear
and women who
including naked women
that i am looking at
with all the stuff
my data
wasting
that i am 
i think
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 3:33 PM 

Friday, September 4, 2020
innocuous post 44
do you like screenshots or regular shots?
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 4:06 PM 

Friday, September 4, 2020
innocuous post 45
i went to the buffet today, earlier today, and it was more expensive than i expected. it was dinner, and they had the crab special going on.
caldwell
clinton   
dekalb
daviess
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:16 PM 

Friday, September 4, 2020
innocuous post 46
What. Is. What. Thoughts that occupy my mind. Staying happy isn't easy. Or not always easy. Not very easy. Emotions that sink my heart. Not being unhappy isn't easy. Not very easy. Or not always easy.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 10:22 PM 

Saturday, September 5, 2020
innocuous post 47
sometimes i feel sad. but it's kind of on and off. sometimes i get bored. sometimes. and sometimes it's on and off.
my mood isn't exactly up or down right now. i remember in elementary school i went to some kind of math summer school, and one guy referred to something that happened as "Bunk" and I had to ask what he meant by that, and he said "up or down." like the word "bunk" meant "up or down" or something. 
i don't mean that my mood is bunk. i just mean that i'm not happy, really, or unhappy. not at this exact moment or anything.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 3:24 PM 

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 36
i'm hungry right now. tacos again. i want to say fuck. but. i love tacos. cheap ones. i mean. and. well. i guess i mean i like not paying a hell of a lot of money for tacos. or. to be. i like when tacos are. you know. have cost efficiencies. or some shit. yeah. i really do. i was looking at my portfolio. i was shocked by how much. you know. shits down and whatever. the other day i tried to check the status of my unemployment claim. i would only be payment for 3 or 4 weeks, but it was during that period when there was a 600 a week bump.

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 38
Here were a few ideas that i have about trying this whole writing thing again. like fucking again. i thought i wrote this whole bull-shit writer crap off years. fucking years ago. that two years spent like half a decade ago was. i really think. the last time i took writing serious. i have a few ideas though, and, maybe this time it might work out.
the first idea is that i might keep the things i write unpublished on my blog, or anywhere else, for a while. copyright whatever i have once i'm sure i'm finished with it, then try to sell the work with the copyright to publishers.
the second idea is to take a few pieces that i have and see if there is any interest in funding me or offering an advance on a book of 100 or so poems. i just don't know how any of this works.
the third idea is to approach literary agents, or whatever, rather than publishers directly. i don't know how that works either.
i have plenty of stamps.
the last approach that i took was the one i had been doing for years. submit my poems to magazines and see if they could get published, and then. i guess, at that point approach publishers or agents with some kind of accomplishments that would give them a reason to work with me.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 7:15 PM 

Monday, August 31, 2020
innocuous post 21
these are
screenshots
of different stuff
that i'm really into
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 5:32 PM

Monday, August 31, 2020
N innocuous post 22
cleaning up my blog here and there. this is a nightmare. there is a shit ton of stuff on here. this could take a long fucking time. like what exactly should i focus on? what exactly should i place priority on? i don't really know. i'm just going down the list, and i guess that's what i'll do.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 6:50 PM 

Monday, August 31, 2020
I innocuous post 23
good lord. i almost bought 4 more silver coins. i have to be careful not to be ridiculous all the time. well. i didn't do it. i have to remember not to do it later on. i'm just concerned that i might do it later on anyway.
it's almost the end of my work week. yesterday was actually pretty nice, there wasn't much downtime and i stayed busy the entire shift. but at one point it was clear that one of my co-workers was intentionally trying to aggravate me. i argued with him briefly, but i realized it was easier to tell him to find someone else to work with. i was already wrapping up my task, i didn't need his help, and he didn't need to loiter near me if we were going to have trouble getting along.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 7:35 PM

Monday, August 31, 2020
T innocuous post 24
I could have sworn that i just saw. Someone famous. But maybe it was just. someone normal. 
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:56 PM 

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 39
What's up? Well. I bought a few lottery tickets. Not in the bizzare way i thought of and mentioned in a previous post. What i did was buy 5 near my apartment. And 3 near my work. And that's it. Buying lottery tickets has always seemed like a silly thing to do. I never win. Not the jackpot anyway.
Buying lottery tickets. Trying to get published. Both of these things seem like silly ideas to me. And neither of them have ever really worked.
I have this funny idea for a series of poems though.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 8:56 PM 

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 40
Photo dump
i thought
of different
screenshots
stuff that
was really coll [cool] and
this is where you are

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 8:59 PM 
are you wearing panties right now?
because it smells nicer in here
that it does in any other place
i've ever been in my entire life.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 2:19 PM

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 41
Good lord. I don't want to do any online dating crap. I really don't. My apartment isnt really well suited for having guests over. I dont have a TV. I don't have a bed. Or a couch. I don't have an internet connection either. I just use my fucking phone. And honestly. I don't want anyone moving in with me either.
I don't want a bed. Or a couch. Or a tv. Or a fucking internet connection.
these are anges of clorishallia
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 10:18 PM 
Friday, September 4, 2020
innocuous post 42
i really struggled with being. kind of. in a state of emotional despair this morning. this is one of those things. where. i know this goes away after a while. but it's never definite as to when it goes away.

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 14
i went to walmart and bought 13 bottles of diet pepsi in the 2 liter size, and a bottle of dole lemonade in the 2 liter size. i also bought a box of white chocolate macadamia cookies.
and this is probably where this blog. devolves. into a daily list of the exact things i did for any particular day.
maybe it doesn't devolve in that direction. maybe it just changes.
i don't know. 
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 2:18 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 15
it's still somewhat hard to sleep during the day. it's just so hot. i found some free classes that i can take, that i think that would kind of be useful. i should buy a pair of headphones. 
for now, as far as finding a second job goes. i think i'll hold off on that for now. even the side hustle stuff. except maybe for selling stuff online. i don't imagine that to be too taxing or draining or anything that will leave me fatigued, but i don't have anything to sell, other than. my used clothes. well. a bunch of other stuff too.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 6:41 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 16
"a single H-6J bomber to [Woody Island] should
not be viewed as a game-changer"
China is going to deploy an HJ bomber to 
Woody Island? of course that's not changing
the game. A BJ-4U Interceptor, however, would
create a big fat load of new problems.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:14 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 17
I don't even know what exactly is on my mind. I really dont. Maybe. I'm almost halfway through my weekend.
What makes the days so long? Lacking that which makes them short. The grief is real. It actually is.
On the ride to work today there was a kind of monsoon. My windshield wipers arent that fast. And i had almost no visibility for several miles. My car is really small and light. So the wind really pushes me around. In high winds i roll my windows down. With the rain it was kind of annoying getting all wet.
Even I can be a total jerk sometimes
Just thinking about
things I've done. before.
But who hasn't been a jerk to me?
everyone has been a jerk to me
at one point or another
and fair is fucking fair.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:59 PM

Sunday, August 30, 2020
innocuous post 18
I don't like way this feels. It's really.
It's an unpleasant emotion. I think
about how some conclusions are silly.
The wrong direction. The wrong path. A link
in a chain of incorrect steps that a 
person makes. That a person is bound by.
And maybe it will all work out some day.
Maybe not in the specific way I
had in mind. Here? or somewhere else? now? or
sometime in the distant future? What's life
really all about? Fulfilling those short
term needs like hunger. How many times I've
stared blankly at a bowl of oatmeal and
said: you're not what I want to eat, my friend.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 12:53 AM 

Sunday, August 30, 2020
innocuous post 19
i'm cleaning a lot of this stuff up right now. i'm starting to think. maybe. i had an issue. like a mental one. but i already knew that.
these are strange times. i don't know. sometimes. what's true and what isn't.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 7:04 PM 

Sunday, August 30, 2020
innocuous post 20
I think. This fucking music is drowning out my thoughts. So. I should probably take a gew months to work on a personal project. And maybe this will be fun. Maybe it'll just be a fantastic waste of time.
I have an idea for this. Actually. How to do this the right way. I spent plenty of money on other experiments. Why not try this.
I don't know.
My head hurts. The temperature in Arlington was very high. And i forgot to leave my window open, so my apartment was basically a hot house the entire day.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:18 PM 

Vladimir Putin I the Mediocre compares himself to Tsar Peter I the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine I the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short. The Boudin is mightier than the Keilbasa!
Vladimir Putin compares himself to Tsar Peter the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short.

Vladimir Putin compares himself to Tsar Peter the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Short
but basically, the 250K valuation of Chestnut + Hazel is based on my most recent round of series D seed funding from the Kenneth Larot Yamat venture fund of 130 USD for a .052 % equity stake. hehehe. my burn rate is remarkably low. hehe anyway.um, i actually increased my net worth to 250K, year to date, but 271K of that is due to stretched and lofty valuations of my. you know. my publishing enterprise. hehehe!

blogging is such a huge distraction. Kind of a headache
and when I have to do a whole bunch of revisions this
is a nightmare.

I'm not prepared for whatever it
is that happens next really not
prepared. this is a headache.

quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. mas gigantes.

Vladimir Putin I the Mediocre compares himself to Tsar Peter I the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine I the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short. The Hot Dog is mightier than the Keilbasa!

quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. los ligartes. mas gigantes.
quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. los ligartes. mas gigantes.

but um, one thing i want to point out about your endless chatter about a 60k salary as being insufficient, there are actually quite a few people who, I think have a salary of zero dollars annually, they're wealthy because of their equity positions.I guess I could finish that Circuit City piece by Sotomayor.

there's a kind of limit to how many times i want to read a reiterated article on the same tending topic, even if the subject matter becomes incrementally more interesting day after day.
what was i thinking about? i don't mind pay-walls, it's just that i have to deal with about 50 - 100 per day, and it isn't clear to me if there's an all access pay-wall pass to every periodical in existence.
damn it, it's actually: lagartos

Vladimir Putin I the Mediocre compares himself to Tsar Peter I the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine I the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short. The Hot Dog is mightier than the Keilbasa!
Vladimir Putin I the Mediocre compares himself to Tsar Peter I the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine I the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short. The Boudin is mightier than the Keilbasa!
Vladimir Putin compares himself to Tsar Peter the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short.

Vladimir Putin compares himself to Tsar Peter the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Short. i am not prepared for whatever it is that happens next.

Thursday, August 27, 2020
innocuous post 4
this posts
had a number
of screenshots
of stamps that i wanted to buy, and that I think
i actually eventually purchased.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 11:04 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 5
I'm at the buffet. Eating. Well. Of course I'm eating. I have to check again about the second job stuff. But there are potential issues that may come up if overtime is required at either job. However. There would only be the potential of overlap of shifts one day a week. I have 1 specific 2nd job in mind. And it's the one I'm trying to work out in my head.

My current job and the potential second job are on opposite sides of FT Worth, this isn't necessarily a problem because I live in Arlington, it's in the middle of these two locations.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:16 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 6
Finished lunch. I have to figure something out. Money wise.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:54 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 7
after eating at the buffet i was going to head to my mailbox, but the traffic was terrible, so i figured that i would check it later. i did check it the other night. and really. i probably don't need to check it again for a little while longer.

what was i thinking? the second job stuff, and the side hustle stuff. well. i put most of these ideas to the side for the minute. something came up. and i figured that i would put this other stuff to the side for a while.
if i were to sell stuff online. well. i don't really have anything to sell. other than the stuff i bought already. and really don't need.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 5:41 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 8
I guess these are updates about how things have been for me stock market wise.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 6:03 PM

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 9
I started using youtube music. Google play music is being sunset. Or whatever. So i had to transfer my library from one to the other. The youtube music thing has this radio aspect to it. And that's the main aspect of it. The library is secondary. The problem i have with the radio thing is that i skip tons of songs before i find something i like. Ive always used youtube for music. Or at least more for music than anything else.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 8:47 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 10
Im not hungry. But. I feel like getting something to eat. Or drink.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:09 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 11
Find stuff to do. Nothing exacerbates a bad mood. Nothing exacerbates sadness like hanging out around the house. Like driving around town aimlessly. Like listening to sad music. Or aggressive music.
Maybe i should try doing some dating crap. I'm paid up for okcupid until january. So maybe i should do some dating. But dating is such a distraction. But what im i afraid of being distracted from? It's not like i have some amazing horseshit planned with my life.
Right now. My issue is exactly zits. I sweat non stop in this state. I rarely use acne cream. The tube i have still has a bunch in it. But it bleaches my clothes.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:43 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 12
What's on my mind. Well. Another day. I'm usually alone. Breaking the ice. I don't know how to explain it. For me. There's a kind of uneasiness being around other people. And there's this. Kind of a need to try to be pleasant.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 12:46 AM

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 13
Yelp. It occurred to me that i have to clean up yelp too.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:25 PM 

So I think of the # danishcookieuxorious series as being everything from the end of # putinpullout! to this exact tweet. and i'll register a copyright for # danishcookieuxorious, and then start using some other hashtag.
and then I'm going to copyright the lyrics to song titled: "I'm sorry Ms. Jensen, I'm actually not even lying about my intentions."
in addition to all of that: I'm also going to file a patent for the box that the envelopes are sold in, and the patent is going to be filed as: Danish Cookie Flavored Envelope Scented Boxes.
and I'm also going to file a patent for an envelope called: Danish Cookie Flavored Envelopes! and these won't be self-sealing, you'll have to lick and taste these envelopes!

this is going to take a while longer
I didn't really know how long
this post really was but it was
a series of other posts with
content from around the web
from my social media profiles.

i dont know how i feel right now. Akward i guess. I did something weird at work. And im still all weirded out about it. And i dont know. How i feel. Fuck.

Thursday, August 27, 2020
innocuous post 1
i may have to make some revisions to my. i guess. total online presence. social media and whatever else. i was going to start with pinterest. i turns out i have a different pinterest on my computer. and a different pinterest on my phone.
just to make sure i was using the word innocuous correctly, i looked the word up in the dictionary and came across the word:
anodyne
what i've concluded from the definitions of the two words is that anodyne is different from innocuous in that it refers to intentionally, or deliberately being innocuous.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:11 PM 

Thursday, August 27, 2020
innocuous post 2
i think that i've cleaned up the main social media stuff that i need to. i have a few other things too, i'll get to them soon.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 10:52 PM 

Thursday, August 27, 2020
innocuous post 3
blog page removal. notes from other stuff.
Submit your poetry to Chestnut and Hazel by using the submissions box at the side of the page.
here are more things
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 10:54 PM 

A Twitter catfish posts risqué 
photographs  and actual perverts 
ask to meet up, sad truth: 

I tried macking ladies approach on 
Snapchat and it didn't seem 
to achieve anything, nothing!
In the CCP uses the Yuan (¥) or 
the Kublai Khan Dollar, the USA 
uses the USD ($), or, the Ameri Khan Dollar!

A dress from second-hand 
store fabric that you made: I 
would like first-hand experience 
pulling it off your body!

a phony Twitter catfish posts risqué 
photographs and actual perverts 
ask to meet up, as for me? it's never 
worked. data driven results: 

i tried macking numerous ladies on 
Snapchat and after macking 100
beezies I liquidated zero peezies!

I think the Flying Dutchman should buy: A.P. Møller – Mærsk A/S + Vale S.A. + PayPal Holdings, Inc. and do it before 2031, the Year of the Boar. The Acquisition of PayPal Holdings, Inc. should be called: The Reconquista.
I'm serious; I'm going to make an envelope called: Danish Cookie Scented Envelopes! What other woman in the Milky Way Galaxy will have an envelope patent named after her?
I think I just got some inspiration.

May 30
and this is kind of why i'm somewhat insensitive to current events. there was actually a spike in mass shootings in the DFW area at gentlemen's clubs, and, i feel like i'm the only person who followed the issue.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 4
A Twitter catfish posts risqué
photographs and actual perverts
ask to meet up, sad truth: 
I tried that approach on 
Snapchat and it didn't
accomplish anything, nothing!
#DanishCookieUxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 4
I think that the Flying Dutchman should by: A.P. Møller – Mærsk A/S + Vale S.A. + PayPal Holdings, Inc. and do it before 2031, the Year of the Boar. Buying PayPal Holdings, Inc. should be called: The Reconquista.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
Jun 4
I'm curious to know how you settled the logistical aspects of relocation: did you sell everything? intending just to buy new things in your new city?
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
Jun 4
I think that the Flying Dutchman should by: A.P. Møller – Mærsk A/S + Vale S.A. + PayPal Holdings, Inc. and do it before 2031, the Year of the Boar. Buying PayPal Holdings, Inc. should be called: The Reconquista.
#DanishCookieUxorious

Kenneth Larot Yamat
Jun 4
A Twitter catfish posts risqué 
photographs  and actual perverts 
ask to meet up, data driven results: 
I tried macking ladies approach on 
Snapchat and after macking 100
beezies I liquidated zero peezies!

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30
Relocation:
One issue with banker boxes is that they really are kind of expensive in comparison to regular boxes. I think price vs utility can effect the way a person experiences a product.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30

yeah, honestly, i'd just sell everything and buy new stuff when you get to your new city.
#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30

and think about this: since you are such an amazing craftswoman, you can probably get an Etsy premium, or creative-unique-cool-stuff premium for your stuff. and then just make new stuff when you get to your new place.
#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30

but in some ways. the easiest thing to do: it might be easiest just to sell whatever you aren't really emotionally attached to, and buy new stuff online using your new residence as the ship-to location
#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30

anyway, i don't know if you have any Danish Cookie scented quilts. or anything. but um. there might be a premium attached to that. i'd buy one, but i didn't see an OnlyFans link on your linktree.
but basically, the 250K valuation of Chestnut + Hazel is based on my most recent round of series D seed funding from the Kenneth Larot Yamat venture fund of 130 USD for a .052 % equity stake. hehehe. my burn rate is remarkably low. hehe anyway.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

16h
um, i actually increased my net worth to 250K, year to date, but 271K of that is due to stretched and lofty valuations of my. you know. my publishing enterprise. hehehe!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

there was something
there and she new it
boobies are the key
to happiness.

16h
but um, one thing i want to point out about your endless chatter about a 60k salary as being insufficient, there are actually quite a few people who, I think have a salary of zero dollars annually, they're wealthy because of their equity positions.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

16h
I guess I could finish that Circuit City piece by Sotomayor.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

16h
there's a kind of limit to how many times i want to read a reiterated article on the same tending topic, even if the subject matter becomes incrementally more interesting day after day.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

16h
what was i thinking about? i don't mind pay-walls, it's just that i have to deal with about 50 - 100 per day, and it isn't clear to me if there's an all access pay-wall pass to every periodical in existence.
not really
ready for whatever
happens next whatever is
in store for me.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
Jun 8
i think that the return to the office (RTO) movement is a joint conspiracy on the part of the automobile cartel, and the vehicle mafia to sell more cars! how do i know? simple: cui bono!
#cyclamateandwater

i am not prepared for whatever
it is that happens next not 
really sure
i'm ready for the next stage in my 
life whatever that happens to be.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 8
i think that the return to the office (RTO) movement is a joint conspiracy on the part of the automobile cartel, and the vehicle mafia to sell more cars!
#cyclamateandwater
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

47m
idea for a feature for customer relationship management application / vernacular localization / contingent upon occupation / professional or occupation based localization / for example / cosmetics / pharmaceuticals / beverages / agriculture / munitions / petrochemical / energy
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

54m
damn it, it's actually: lagartos
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

59m
quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. los ligartes. mas gigantes.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

1h
quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. los ligartes. mas gigantes.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

1h
quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. mas gigantes.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

4h
Vladimir Putin I the Mediocre compares himself to Tsar Peter I the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine I the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short. The Hot Dog is mightier than the Keilbasa!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

4h
Vladimir Putin I the Mediocre compares himself to Tsar Peter I the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine I the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short. The Boudin is mightier than the Keilbasa!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

7h
Vladimir Putin compares himself to Tsar Peter the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

7h
Vladimir Putin compares himself to Tsar Peter the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Short
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

15h
but basically, the 250K valuation of Chestnut + Hazel is based on my most recent round of series D seed funding from the Kenneth Larot Yamat venture fund of 130 USD for a .052 % equity stake. hehehe. my burn rate is remarkably low. hehe anyway.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

i don;t what to do
i mean i have a few
ideas but
nothing is sure
and i'm really scared
about what to do next.
i really am i have
no cushion.

16h
um, i actually increased my net worth to 250K, year to date, but 271K of that is due to stretched and lofty valuations of my. you know. my publishing enterprise. hehehe!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

16h
but um, one thing i want to point out about your endless chatter about a 60k salary as being insufficient, there are actually quite a few people who, I think have a salary of zero dollars annually, they're wealthy because of their equity positions.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

16h
I guess I could finish that Circuit City piece by Sotomayor.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

16h
there's a kind of limit to how many times i want to read a reiterated article on the same tending topic, even if the subject matter becomes incrementally more interesting day after day.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

i don't know what route
to take right now. just
risk it or play it safe
and steady.

16h
what was i thinking about? i don't mind pay-walls, it's just that i have to deal with about 50 - 100 per day, and it isn't clear to me if there's an all access pay-wall pass to every periodical in existence.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 8
i think that the return to the office (RTO) movement is a joint conspiracy on the part of the automobile cartel, and the vehicle mafia to sell more cars! how do i know? simple: cui bono!
#cyclamateandwater
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 8
i think that the return to the office (RTO) movement is a joint conspiracy on the part of the automobile cartel, and the vehicle mafia to sell more cars!
#cyclamateandwater
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 7
"...all possible measures should be implemented to avoid following the bad example set
by Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. (MFG)"
This is a shareholder proposal from the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. (MUFG) annual meeting.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 8
I would totally put forward shareholder proposals during the Twitter, Inc. (TWTR) annual meeting, calling out Meta Platforms, Inc. (FB), and vice versa, and I would just do that all day long. Then I'd do Kansas City Southern V. Union Pacific. All day. Serious.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

after not quire a year,
here i am waiting to get
out of this hole and
this is a nightmare.

Jun 7
Replying to 
@KennethLYamat
and then I would do Conagra and call out Hormel. I would do AT&T and call out Verizon. I would then put forward a proposal at Exxon, calling out Chevron, and then another one, at Pfizer, calling out AstraZeneca.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 8
here's another one, and it happens in a sequence: I'll put forward a proposal at Mondelez calling out Nestle, regarding chocolates, and then a proposal at Nestle calling out Abbott Labs, regarding baby formula.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 7
This is the funniest thing I've read in a long time:
"...all possible measures should be implemented to avoid following the bad example set
by Mizuho Financial Group, Inc."
This is shareholder proposal from MUFG's annual meeting.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 7
i think of cyclamate as being artificially sweet, and unnaturally sweet, sweetness doesn't come naturally, i think of cyclamate as something dangerous, but i also think of cyclamate as having less substance than sugar!
#cyclamateandwater
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
Jun 7

this a reference to: sugar and water, the preferred beverage of cockroach man from outer space!
i think of cyclamate as being artificially sweet, meaning being sweet isn't natural, but i also think of cyclamate as being dangerous.
#cyclamateandwater
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 7
it's hot, and i realize that
my mood has a flipped 
relationship with the weather.

when it's sunny: i feel
under the weather, and when
its gloomy: i feel animated.

#cyclamateandwater

this a reference to: sugar and water, the preferred beverage of cockroach man.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 7
it's hot, and i realize that
my mood has a flipped 
relationship with the weather.

when it's sunny: i feel
under the weather, and when
its gloomy: i feel animated.

#
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 7
it's hot, and i realize that
my mood has a flipped 
relationship with the weather.

when it's sunny: i feel
under the weather, and when
its gloomy: i feel animated.

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 6
So I think of the # danishcookieuxorious series as being everything from the end of # putinpullout! to this exact tweet. and i'll register a copyright for # danishcookieuxorious, and then start using some other hashtag.

#DanishCookieUxorious

* * *

... and then I would do Conagra and call out Hormel. I would do AT&T and call out Verizon. I would then put forward a proposal at Exxon, calling out Chevron, and then another one, at Pfizer, calling out AstraZeneca.
7:06 PM · Jun 7, 2022·Twitter Web App
View Tweet analytics

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
11h
Replying to 
@KennethLYamat
... here's another one, and it happens in a sequence: I'll put forward a proposal at Mondelez calling out Nestle, regarding chocolates, and then a proposal at Nestle calling out Abbott Labs, regarding baby formula.



Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
22h
Replying to 
@KennethLYamat
I would totally put forward shareholder proposals during the Twitter, Inc. (TWTR) annual meeting, calling out Meta Platforms, Inc. (FB), and vice versa, and I would just do that all day long. Then I'd do Kansas City Southern V. Union Pacific. All day. Serious.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
22h
and then I would do Conagra and call out Hormel. I would do AT&T and call out Verizon. I would then put forward a proposal at Exxon, calling out Chevron, and then another one, at Pfizer, calling out AstraZeneca.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

11h
here's another one, and it happens in a sequence: I'll put forward a proposal at Mondelez calling out Nestle, regarding chocolates, and then a proposal at Nestle calling out Abbott Labs, regarding baby formula.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

11h
Replying to 
@KennethLYamat
I would totally put forward shareholder proposals during the Twitter, Inc. (TWTR) annual meeting, calling out Meta Platforms, Inc. (FB), and vice versa, and I would just do that all day long. Then I'd do Kansas City Southern V. Union Pacific. All day. Serious.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 6
So I think of the # danishcookieuxorious series as being everything from the end of # putinpullout! to this exact tweet. and i'll register a copyright for # danishcookieuxorious, and then start using some other hashtag.
#DanishCookieUxorious

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 7
it's hot, and i realize that
my mood has a flipped 
relationship with the weather.

when it's sunny: i feel
under the weather, and when
its gloomy: i feel animated.
#cyclamateandwater

this a reference to: sugar and water, the preferred beverage of cockroach man.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 7
it's hot, and i realize that
my mood has a flipped 
relationship with the weather.

when it's sunny: i feel
under the weather, and when
its gloomy: i feel animated.

#
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 7
it's hot, and i realize that
my mood has a flipped 
relationship with the weather.

when it's sunny: i feel
under the weather, and when
its gloomy: i feel animated.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 7
i think of cyclamate as being artificially sweet, and unnaturally sweet, sweetness doesn't come naturally, i think of cyclamate as something dangerous, but i also think of cyclamate as having less substance than sugar!

#cyclamateandwater
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 13
Mod mode dev tools and open source code has greater utility then God mode N00B codes!

#UX
#userexperience
#nintendosUX
#atarisUX
#SEX
#SubstantiallybetterEXperience
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 13
Mod mode dev tools and open source code has greater utility then God mode N00B codes!

#UX
#userexperience
#nintendo
#atari
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 12
I know, with 91% statistical confidence, that my Mandarins were filled with Orange Juice, and with 91% statistical certainty, that my Oranges were filled with Mandarin Juice! From the bottom of my gut! My navel is about to burst with something somewhat similar to stomach sauce.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

there are too many
things going on right now.

May 12
I know, with 91% statistical confidence, that my Mandarins were filled with Orange Juice, and with 91% statistical certainty, that my Oranges were filled with Mandarin Juice! My navel is about to burst with something I can only be say is somewhat acidic.

#USFoodDept.com,INC
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 12
With 91% statistical confidence I know that my Mandarins were filled with Orange Juice and with a 91% statistical certainty, that my Oranges were filled with Mandarin Juice! My navel is about to burst with something I can only be say is somewhat acidic.

#USFoodDept.com,INC
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 12
With 91% statistical confidence I know that my Mandarins were filled with Orange Juice, and with a 91% statistical certainty, that my Oranges were filled with Mandarin Juice! My navel is about to burst with something I can only be say is somewhat acidic.

#USFoodDept.com,INC
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 12
I can't believe the Eskimo 5 pipeline was shut down! How are fat Russian oligarchs going to run their super yachts? On whale blubber? Oilgarchs and Gasgarchs hide money from Grannygarchs! Grannygarchs have revenge! True Eskimos run kayaks on whale blubber anyway!

#GILFconspiracy
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 12
I can't believe the Eskimo 5 pipeline was shut down! How are the Russian oligarchs going to run their super yachts? Whale blubber? Oilgarchs and Gasgarchs hide money from Grannygarchs! Grannygarchs have revenge! True Eskimos run kayaks on whale blubber anyway!

#GILFconspiracy
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 12
I was told that inflation conquers all, but then this GILF started talking about Cost of Living Adjustments (COLA), and Treasury Inflation Protected Securities (TIPS), GILFs don't suffer from inflation the way I suffer!

May 13
I want to outline four user experience design and engineering principles: xenomorphic, yautjaistic, humanoid, and robotoid.

#UX
#UXdesign
#UXengineering
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 13
User experience feedback:
"It's a paperweight."
"I'm not a xenomorph!"
"Do I look like a Klingon?"
"I don't know what this is."

"I'm starting at 000 
and working my way 
up to 999"
"Open sesame!"

#UX
#userexperience
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 13
User experience feedback:

"It's a paperweight."

"I'm not a xenomorph!"
"Do I look like a Klingon?"
"I don't what this is."

"I'm starting at 000 
and working my way 
up to 999"

"Open sesame!"

#UX
#userexperience
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

man
yeah things
are not going well things
are a disaster
i guess
things were on
a kind of cruise control
not too long ago.

May 13
User experience feedback:

"It's a paperweight."
"I'm not a xenomorph!"
"Do I look like a Klingon?"
"I don't what this is."
"I'm starting at 000 
and working my way 
up to 999"

#UX
#userexperience

I don't think the granny slut gilf-garch from the ministry of truth should edit anyone's comments! my rouble is 7.5 american inches, and and yields 7.5 british pounds for every 7.5 russian kilometers, of perimeter when measured with an electron micro-scope!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 15
I don't think the granny slut gilf-garch from the ministry of truth should edit anyone's comments! my rouble is 7.5 american inches, and and yields 7.5 british pounds for every 7.5 russian kilometers, of perimeter!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 15
I don't think the granny slut gilf-garch from the ministry of truth should edit anyone's comments! my rouble is 7.5 american inches, and and yields 7.5 british pounds for every 7.4 russian kilometers, of perimeter!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 15
I figured out exactly how to use the antikythera mechanism: it's a paper weight. Other than that? I don't know; some kind of ancient xenomorph or yautja compass-sextant-astrolabe-GPS navigation bullshit?

#UX
#UXdesign
#UXengineering
#userexperienceforarcheologists
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 15
I figured out exactly how to use the antikythera mechanism: it's a paper weight. Other than that? I don't know; some kind of ancient xenomorph or yatuja compas-sextant-astrolabe-GPS navigation bullshit?

#UX
#UXdesign
#UXengineering
#userexperienceforarcheologists
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 15
Kungpao Cougars favor the gold.

#grannygarch
#GILFconspiracy
#kungpaoCougars
#compoundinterest
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 15
I can't believe the Eskimo 5 pipeline was shut down! How are fat Russian oligarchs going to run their super yachts? On whale blubber? Oil garchs and Gasgarchs hide money from Grannygarchs! Grannygarchs get revenge! True Eskimos run kayaks on whale blubber anyway!

#dmitryrogozin
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 15
I can't believe the Eskimo 5 pipeline was shut down! How are fat Russian oligarchs going to run their super yachts? On whale blubber? Oil garchs and Gasgarchs hide money from Grannygarchs! Grannygarchs have revenge! True Eskimos run kayaks on whale blubber anyway!

#dmitryrogozin
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 15
Compound interest favors the old.

these dreams
are becoming 
nightmares
i did see a role that i was interested
in and i don't know what to do.

#grannygarch
#GILFconspiracy
#kungpaoCougars

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 18
Do you approve of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor?

Yes   1%
No    0%
1 votes

In fact, I want to clerk for Justice Sotomayor, and when I'm on the U.S. Supreme Court, I'll opine conservative views with more bravado than Scalia AND take Justice Sotomayor to the Ballet!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 18
Do you approve of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor?

Yes   1%
No    0%
1 votes

In fact, I want to clerk for Justice Sotomayor, and when I'm on the Supreme Court, I'll opine conservative views with more bravado than Scalia AND take Justice Sotomayor to the Ballet!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 18
Do you approve of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor?

Yes   1%
No    0%
1 votes

In fact, I want to clerk for Justice Sotomayor, and when I'm on the supreme court, I'll opine conservative views with more bravado than Scalia AND take Justice Sotomayor to the Ballet!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 17
Do you approve of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor?
Yes
1%
no
0%
0 votes
4 minutes left

in fact. i want to clerk for Justice Sotomayor, and when I'm on the supreme court, i'll opine conservative views with more bravado than Scalia, AND take Sotomayor to the Ballet!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
when every problem you've  ever faced 
is a matter of food and shelter, every 
solution is a hammer and sickle

#vladimirputin
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

it was something
that used to make me
happy but the longer
this goes on the worse
things get.

May 23
when every problem you've  ever faced 
is a matter of food and shelter, every 
solution is a hammer and sickle

#liberatetheproletariat
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 22
I knew it! I was going to get in trouble for that poem. Oh well, I guess I won't be freezing to death in St. Petersburg this summer!

#VladimirPutin 
#SergeiLavrov
#StateDept
#USDepartmentofState

https://mid.ru/ru/maps/us/1814243/
yeah i really feel bad
about this whole disaster
this pending disaster
this impending disaster
things are falling apart.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
That guy wanted a whole. fucking. dollar. for my student subscription. i offered the old man 99 cents, but he wouldn't budge a single American inch.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
I honestly think that the reason Rupert Murdoch bought MySpace was to stiff me out of my poems, because I stiffed him on my Wall Street Journal: Student Edition subscription fees.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
I read somewhere that it's actually possible to: request your file, or whatever, from any entity that collects your data, and I think that the process is similar to a Freedom of Information Act Request, but I never got around to doing that.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
I tried a number of different things to get my old MySpace account back, including reactivating old email addresses, but even that didn't work. and then I think I tried to find my own Myspace page using some internet archive, that didn't work either.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
What do I remember about MySpace? well. I actually left my page as Vanilla as possible, but I think that my MySpace blog was kind of epic. In fact I've tried at least a few times to track down my old MySpace Blogs.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 24
🦑fish are eaten⛵and pies are🐙
made from the guts of🛶so many
fish and🐚shells are collected🛸from
who and whatever🐌 has them they came🚀

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 24
That guy wanted a whole. fucking. dollar. for my student subscription. I offered the old man 99 cents, but he wouldn't budge a single Australian inch.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 24
I honestly think that the reason Rupert Murdoch bought MySpace was to stiff me out of my poems, because I stiffed him on my Wall Street Journal: Student Edition subscription fees.
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 24
That 250 USD Meningitis vaccine better save me 25000 inflation adjusted USD in healthcare related expenses.
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 24
What Bumble had that the other dating apps didn't was a lifetime subscription option: none of the Match Group products had one, so the only person in the Dating Industrial Complex who knows how to press the Net Present Value button works at Bumble INC.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 24
What I liked about Bumble over the other dating apps was that it had a lifetime subscription option: none of the Match Group products had that, so the only person in the Dating Industrial Complex who know how to press the NPV button works at Bumble INC.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 24
What I liked about Bumble over the other dating apps was that it had a lifetime subscription option: none of the Match Group products had that, so the only person in the Dating Industrial Complex who know how to press the NPV button works at Bumble.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
A few years ago I was at the bar, and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian conspiracy, and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians, insectilians, or robotilians.
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
A few years ago I was at the bar, and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian conspiracy, and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt, about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians, insectilians, or robotilians.
One of my favorite artifacts was a codex of invoices and annotations from Prince Antiochus I to his father Emperor Seleucus I asking for tax credits for his latest infrastructure project, as well as inquiries regarding qualified tax deductions for his public education project.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 25
When I lived at the Vatican City I amassed a decent collection of artifacts from the Selucid Dynasty; Saddam Hussein sent a diplomatic mission to have my collection repatriated; I insisted I had clear title dating to Mehmet II, and his actions would be construed as expropriation.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 25
When I think about my time at the Vatican City: I remember having amassed a pretty decent collection of artifacts from the Selucid Dynasty, but Saddam Hussein sent a diplomatic mission to have my entire collection expropriated; I insisted I had clear title dating to Mehmet II.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 25
There won't be a Real Housewives of the Vatican City because 180,000 USD in annual disposal income wouldn't be sufficient to support a spouse, a humble cleric could buy maybe two books a year, from Sotheby's, on that salary.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 25
Pope Francis also made a comment about declining birthrates, he said something along the lines of: people who don't start families are self-indulgent, and I thought; he's right, median per capita income in the Vatican City is 180,000 USD, and none of those guys have families.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 25
Pope Francis also made a comment about declining birthrates. He said something along the lines of: people who don't start families are self-indulgent, and I thought: he's right, median per capita income in the Vatican City is 180,000 USD, and none of those guys have families.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 25
Pope Francis also made a comment about declining birthrates. He said something along the lines of: people who don't start families are self-indulgent, and I thought: he's right, median per capita income in the Vatican City is like 180,000 USD, and none of those guys have kids.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

It's just that i really
cannot believe that
disaster is already
here but it's not like
i didn't see this coming.

May 25
Years ago I was at a bar and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian🐊🦖 conspiracy and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians🐙🦑, insectilians🦋🐞, or robotilians🤖🖥️.
#DanishCookieUXorious


Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
Prince Antiochus I consulted the Oracle at of Apollo at Delphi, the Oracle of Tiresias at Thebes, and the Oracle of Artemis at Halicarnassus to determine if it would be suitable, and compliant to establish an:

ORACLE! OF! PROMETHEUS! 
AT! ANTIOCH!

DUN! DUN! DUN!
THEYsaidYES
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
... but the clever young prince: Prince Antiochus I, no less! would not be had! What Prince Antiochus I had found after extensive scrutinization was a subclause designating ecclesiastical constructions as infrastructure, and  so Prince Antiochus I developed a plot of his own!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
what Emperor Seleucus I and Pharaoh Ptolemy II had in mind was to undercut Prince Antiochus I by composing a warrant of attainder expressing a prohibition on subsidies for any academic edifices north of the Nile, or west of the Euphrates, stopping any Academy of Antioch.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
you see, there was something conspiratorial afoot between Emperor Seleucus I and Pharaoh Ptolemy II. Seleucus intended to create a codex collection at Seleucia, and Ptolemy: a scriptorium magnus at Alexandria, neither had any intention of being eclipsed by Prince Antiochus I.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
anyway, no one said that eating the fruit from the Tree of Knowledge would bring you anywhere nice, now did it? So, after Prince Antiochus I petitioned Pharaoh Ptolemy II for funds to subsidize the Academy of Antioch, Pharaoh Ptolemy II declined, citing a project of his own.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

i don't know what
on earth to do.
this isn't going well

May 26
anyway, no one said that eating the fruit from the Tree of Knowledge would bring you anywhere nice, now did it? So, after Prince Antiochus I petitioned Pharaoh Ptolemy II for funds to subsidize the Academy of Antioch, Pharaoh Ptolemy declined citing a project of his own.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
and if anyone brings up the Real Housewives again, or anything else for that matter, while I'm discussing this seminal revelation of my findings of the Successor States, I will totally block you!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
When I think about the Real Housewives Franchise it make me sick! There are more pressing issues in the world right now! Especially my Twitter diatribe on taxation during the Diodochi Epoch!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 26

not really ready for 
whatever it is
that is coming next
just around
the corner
two write-ups and
now a suspension.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 27
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 27
Okay, so here's a serious solution to the mass casualty incidents that happen incessantly in the United States: let's round up all the serial killers and mass murderers and other violent sociopaths, and have them fight Vladimir Putin. They did it in StarCraft.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
One of the issues I have is that I grew up in San Jose, California during the Information Age, and as a result, I have an inability to comprehend what a violent crime is. I grew up thinking the Incident at Littleton, Colorado was some kind of artifact of cinematography.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
One of the issues I have is that I grew up in San Jose, California during the Information Age, and as a result, I have an inability to comprehend what a violent crime is. I grew up thinking the Incident at Littleton, Colorado was some kind of Cinematic Production.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
One of the issues I have is that I grew up in San Jose, California during the Information Age? and as a result, I have an inability to comprehend what a violent crime is? I grew up thinking the Incident at Littleton, Colorado was some kind of Hollywood Production?
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
One of the issues I have is that I grew up in San Jose, California during the Information Age, and as a result, I have an inability to comprehend what a violent crime is. I grew up thinking the Incident at Littleton, Colorado was some kind of Hollywood Production.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
One of the issues I have is that I grew up in San Jose, California during the Information Age, and as a result, I have an inability to comprehend what a violent crime is? I grew up thinking the Incident at Littleton, Colorado was some kind of Hollywood Production.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
and that's how the:
Oracle of Prometheus at Antioch in honor of Prince Antiochus I, Summa Magnificarum 

was established.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
and that's how the:
Oracle of Prometheus at Antioch in honor of Prince Antiochus I, Summa Magnificarum was established.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
Prince Antiochus I consulted the Oracle of Apollo at Delphi, the Oracle of Tiresias at Thebes, and the Oracle of Artemis at Halicarnassus to determine if it would be suitable and compliant to establish an:
ORACLE! OF! PROMETHEUS! 
AT! ANTIOCH!

DUN! DUN! DUN!
THEY SAID YES
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
Prince Antiochus I consulted the Oracle at of Apollo at Delphi, the Oracle of Tiresias at Thebes, and the Oracle of Artemis at Halicarnassus to determine if it would be suitable, and compliant to establish an:

ORACLE! OF! PROMETHEUS! 
AT! ANTIOCH!
DUN! DUN! DUN!
THEYsaidYES
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 

not having the same feelings that
 you have, and for not having
 feelings like your feelings.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
when we meet in-person
and I'm not as tall of a person
as you would be satisfied with.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

i don't know
what the heck to do
or where the heck
to look for a new 
position in the
event that I get canned.

May 30
I feel like less of a person
when my vacations don't
meet your expectations of
what a vacation should be.

I feel like less of a person when
my occupation doesn't meet
your expectations of what an
occupation should be.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.

#cyberinsecurities
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person
who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
Relocation:
I'm always prepared to relocate on short notice. I keep enough money on hand to pay early lease / utility termination fees. I keep things boxed intending to mail them to any potential new residential location.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I'm aware of the difference between patents and copyrights, but there isn't a LinkedIn section that allows me to list Copyrights, or Trademarks.
I think that LinkedIn should have a generalized Registered Intellectual Property Section.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
anyway, i don't know if you have any Danish Cookie scented quilts. or anything. but um. there might be a premium attached to that. i'd buy one, but i didn't see an OnlyFans link on your linktree.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
yeah, honestly, i'd just sell everything and buy new stuff when you get to your new city.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
and think about this: since you are such an amazing craftswoman, you can probably get an Etsy premium, or creative-unique-cool-stuff premium for your stuff. and then just make new stuff when you get to your new place.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
but in some ways. the easiest thing to do: it might be easiest just to sell whatever you aren't really emotionally attached to, and buy new stuff online using your new residence as the ship-to location

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
the stuff you need now, you can take with you, and it won't cost anything above what you're already spending getting to your new place: whatever you're currently spending on gas or plane tickets.
#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
you can separate stuff you need now, from stuff you will eventually need over the following months. the now stuff you can take with you, the later stuff you can ship to yourself as needed at a later point in time.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
since you make quilts you can probably ship most things in a bag, like just wrap whatever you want to ship in a quilt, put it in a bag, then ship it to your new residence.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
Relocation:
One issue with banker boxes is that they really are kind of expensive in comparison to regular boxes. I think price vs utility can effect the way a person experiences a product.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
Relocation:
I renewed my current lease about two months ago for another year, but for some reason I'm kind of always in panic mode. I bought banker boxes but they really aren't suitable for shipping even if decent for storage.
#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
anyway, Paul, I still haven't gotten over her after all these years. If you want to, you can meet me in Kansas, and we'll fight over her, fists only, as in: paper, scissors, rock. 

Dwight D. Eisenhower Presidential Library & Museum, 200 S E 4th St, Abilene, KS 67410
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
but I guess timing is everything, as a suitor, and as a progenitor. She never said anything to me about having a Paul, ever. I was working as a fry cook, my shirts covered in grease, day after day. Only thing she ever said was, was: "I've never seen such hideous shirts!"
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
there were other opportunities at the time, in fact, Ferdinand Marcos was offering a one way ticket to the bourgeoisie, fully funded by California Boy Ronald Regan himself! I couldn't do it though: my dick was just too fucking big! So, I went to Stalingrad instead!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
but um, I didn't know she met someone. Five kids? Lucky guy. Unfortunately for me, I was fighting the Wehrmacht in Stalingrad while Pretty Boy Pablo was flirting with the ladies!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
Is being charged with a DUI the same as being credited with a DUI? I wonder if he'll ultimately be debited with a DUI? Do you have to be credited with a DUI before being Debited with a DUI? I've never had a DUI.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
A Twitter catfish posts risqué photographs and actual perverts ask to meet up, sad truth: 
I tried that approach on 
Snapchat and it didn't seem 
to achieve anything, nothing!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

it's a lot to keep
up with and honestly,
it's not something that i can
or even plan to keep
up with. ever.

May 30
No two days are alike
and every day brings new 
surprises and uncertainties.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
Residents from the complex are swimming in the pool the weather 
is hot, the water is cool.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I think that I have a tendency
to say things that I shouldn't,
and once things are digital,

they're never forgotten:
let's hope that no one has been
reading these.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

it goes around in circles
and it doesn't change
the way it moves
because it moves
but it is fixed in place.
 
May 30
I'm watching the ceiling fan
spin around and waft hot and
humid air around my room.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I think that I'm not
really interested in things
other than basics.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I'm not really a
leftist except for those times
when the ladies are.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
well, I made it almost as far as Oklahoma City, OK. I don't think I'll make it to Abilene, KS. Let's just say you win, Paul, and you can keep Nancy! As for paper📜scissors ✂️rock 🥌, see attachment below: Rock!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

it just isn't really going well
all access pass to the booty.
 
May 30
I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.

#cyberinsecurities
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

maybe you are less
happy than you were
a minute ago
and now these are
worse off than they were
not too recently.

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
A Twitter catfish posts risque photographs and actual perverts
ask to meet up, sad truth: 
I tried that approach on 
Snapchat and it didn't seem 
to achieve anything, nothing!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 

not having the same precepts that
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 
not having the same feelings that
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 
not having the same feelings that
 you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
when we meet in-person
and I'm not as tall of a person
as you would be satisfied with.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
when my vacations don't
meet your expectations of
what a vacation should be.

I feel like less of a person when
my occupation doesn't meet
your expectations of what an
occupation should be.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious

nothing helps
and nothing gets
worse and how can you
say that the roundness
is not where happiness
comes from.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30
I want thoughts as 
complex as your thoughts
feelings as deep 
as your feelings
insecurities as trivial
as your insecurities
hobbies as bougie
as your hobbies
tastes as sophisticated 
as your tastes
and problems as 
first-world as yours

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30
I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions you have, and for 

not having the same precepts
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 
not having the same precepts
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30
Relocation:

I renewed my current lease about two months ago for another year, but for some reason I'm kind of always in panic mode. I bought banker boxes but they really aren't suitable for shipping even if decent for storage.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30
Relocation:

I'm always prepared to relocate on short notice. I keep enough money on hand to pay early lease / utility termination fees. I keep things boxed intending to mail them to any potential new residential location.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I'm aware of the difference between patents and copyrights, but there isn't a LinkedIn section that allows me to list Copyrights, or Trademarks.
I think that LinkedIn should have a generalized Registered Intellectual Property Section.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30
the stuff you need now, you can take with you, and it won't cost anything above what you're already spending getting to your new place: whatever you're currently spending on gas or plane tickets.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
you can separate stuff you need now, from stuff you will eventually need over the following months. the now stuff you can take with you, the later stuff you can ship to yourself as needed at a later point in time.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
since you make quilts you can probably ship most things in a bag, like just wrap whatever you want to ship in a quilt, put it in a bag, then ship it to your new residence.

...









































































what's going on? im just stressed and unhappy. it's the same thing over and over again. i dont know what to do about this. i really dont.

i dont know what to do. im just kind of not happy. i dont. know. what would help me out.

what's on my mind?

i don't understand it.

okay. so what i want to know is. how does an emphasis. so. how does the individualized projects / team projects dichotomy reconcile itself with the work from home (WFH) / return to the office (RTO) dichotomy? and. i'm not trying to suggest.

anyway. i think that i've come with a solution to. like. how to respond. to any kind of. anyway. i'm not really going to worry about this for now because. i'm really not in that line of work anyway. and i have no intention of pursuing that line of work.

when i think about this. i just really don't want to suggest anything. i don't want to bring up anything that could. like. challenge the work from home (WFH) movement. i don't really want to say anything that would suggest that i'm anti-work-from-home, or anything. because.

and then, let's suppose hybrid-work environments. how do you hybridize individualized projects and team projects? what is the industry jargon for hybridized individualized collaboration work?

okay. i'll just take a position. if the team is the be all and end all of a project, then (RTO) would be optimal, wouldn't it? because you would have that additional layer of in-person collaboration that you just wouldn't get from tele-conferencing.

okay. so here. i have an idea for the. well. here's the thing. there are arguments for both sides of the return to the office (RTO) / work from home (WFH) argument.

one issue. one idea is that the (WFH) movement is a conspiracy on the part of the collaboration software industrial complex, how do we know this: cui bono! and, you could also say that, anyone who returns to the office (RTO) is, by definition, a team player, even if the person is a total introvert.

honestly, what side am i on? honestly: cui bono! i benefit most from (WFH) because i really don't like traffic. like really. why is there so much traffic. it's a car maker conspiracy! yeah. that's full disclosure.

and. yeah. that was really more thinking than i wanted to do after reading a short tweet and a few supporting tweets. 

i want to say that. i'm probably going to stay off of twitter for the time being.

i'm fucking tired.

alright. i'm feeling better. but. well. i wanted to say: who knows how long this will last. but. i don't want to think that way. i want to think. things are okay right now. and i'm sure they'll get better. i'm sure that things will continue to improve.

...








Notes from Arlington, Texas # 65

06/15/2022 08:32 PM
Archived Content 09/25/2022 06:00 PM 
...

I'm in fucking Nashville.

* * *

it's a constant recalibration of what i need to do. filing for unemployment is a total waste of time. filing an unemployment insurance claim is a total waste of time. my claim never gets approved. nightmare. so what the hell do i do?

* * *

There is an issue of. i need to have enough student loan money to cover living expenses. i really don't want to resort to taking out private fucking student loans.

* * *

this is a nightmare. i think that i'll either. i think that i'll file the unemployment claim. and the disability claim.

i'm looking at my electricity bill. 55 fucking kilowatt hours! 10 dollars and 55 fucking cents. i'm home all the time now. so. i just have to figure out what the hell to do over the next few. hell. there really is no telling how long this is going to take. to find work.

if i do have to relocate. yeah. i don't really know.

* * *

i don't know if i should file an additional unemployment claim or what.

* * *

large butts. are part of the large butt industrial complex. small butts. are part of the small butt industrial complex. there are different industries. and there are different industrial complexes. that's just more or less the way that it is. that is more or less the way that it goes. there is something that i was thinking about.

* * *

sometimes designs put us at odds with one another. sometimes designs intentionally put us at odds with one another. i get that quiet spaces are needed. i remember. i found it difficult to accept a work from home position. because. me neighborhood was just too noisy at the time. it was hard to accept calls. it was hard to concentrate on work. it was hard to focus. sometimes it can be hard to focus. sometimes it can be hard to get things done when it's noisy. does it really enhance your concentration. well. who know. i do. i really do need to make a living. and. right now. i just don't think that i can do that. 

i think. it's a conspiracy on the part of the sell things industrial complex. i think that it's part of the industrial goods industrial complex. you have a problem. and we have the solution. i do not want all old things. i want all new things. i don't want a single new thing. i want all old things. i do not want anything other than high prices antiques that are sold by the most respectable antique dealers. and that's the only thing that i want. antiques. antiques. respectable. respectable. 

i remember. there were a few times when i worked in an office setting. and. it was noisy. and. in those cases. i was the noisy one.

* * *

i'm trying to compile my posts for Letters from Sanford Street. and this is the kind of thing that will take some time. what else was i trying to do? well. there was something that i needed to work on, but for some reason. it seems to have slipped my mind. i don't know how to deal with this kind of thing. it's possible that. he might just be trying to get an interview done or something. i have no idea. but he just left. and now this is easier.

i get. i understand that we don't always have our own private work spaces. we don't all have our own offices. and. these quite spaces are really needed. i get that.

part of the reason that i do conduct business. i do work from home when as far as work pertains to Chestnut + Hazel. is because i really don't have money for an office. not right now. any maybe the work from home thing does come with opportunities that can change things.

i think about the people who started businesses in their dorm room. or people who started businesses in their garage.

* * *

it doesn't take long for quiet spaces to become loud spaces. quiet spaces. everyone needs them. i think this guy is from the walking advertisement industrial complex.

* * *

i have to look for something. i have to look for a position. not because i need the money, but because it's relevant to what i want to accomplish. but the only think i really want to accomplish is to have more money.

* * *

i liquidated nearly everything in my robinhood account. i don't think that i would have ever done that. really. i thought that i would just be able to hold down a job. but i actually can't. i can't hold down a job. everyone picks on me. and this is true no matter where i work.

i have to think about what my next moves are. because this is a nightmare. i don't know if i'll be able to find work. or what. or what kind of work or employment i should be looking for.

* * *

alright. well I guess that's over. what a total nightmare. but right now. i really don't know what to do for work.

* * *

it wasn't too far back that i really felt that things were getting better. but they continue to be a disaster. what the hell do i need to do.

* * *

These last few days have been extremely challenging for me. Everything feels like a kind of sensation overload, and I have to look for work, again.

* * *


Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
9m
make a reference to the original. make an attribution. and make a contribution by making a slight change.

think about the original sin of mankind. make a slight change. then make a contribution of your own. you'll have fun. but this assertion is not guaranteed.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
12m
have you ever tasted how so many things taste similar to one another. this one iPhone had a very similar taste to this generic smart phone i was licking earlier. can you taste the difference? i couldn't! i'm embarrassed and i feel like i have no taste.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
14m
maybe we can collect all of the artifacts that the people all over the universe are collecting. if others collect them. then we too should collect them. in many ways. this is a good thing. in other ways. it's something other than a good thing.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
15m
there is an ongoing twitter conflict between the freudians and the hubbardians. this sort of thing will never end. is it all in your mind. or is it all in your head. this debate will never end.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
16m
orange juice is made from squeezed oranges. lemonade is made from squeeze lemons.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
there really is no such thing as a free lunch. but these tweet is free. 

eat my tweet.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
i met a man from an antique land who said. that upon his ball sack. these cock rings appear.

i told him it's wrong to use a cock ring for his ball sack. it's better to use a ball ring.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
what color are your balls. well. you wouldn't know unless you opened your scrotum and checked.

and don't think you can trick me by painting your balls. or dying them red. neptune is an even bluer big ball with a ball ring.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
sputnik was the first man made ball of steel to circle an even greener. and even bluer ball. the earth is a big blue ball.

think of the white ball. and think of the red ball. tonight. we dine at the pub. tonight we play pool.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
balls. inside of an even bigger. translucent ball. and your balls are numbered. 

because we're playing bingo. what did you think we were doing.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
balls. inside of a netted sack.

i think. therefore. that these are onions.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
and on that pedestal. massive stone balls appear.

and on those pedestals. these massive stone balls appear.

do they have names. I don't think they do.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
i think. i dont really know. spam. maybe. ham. maybe. green apples and spam. what do you think.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
large balls. stone balls. concrete spheres mounted on cubes outside of city hall.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
everything is a headache. and everything else is a nightmare.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
but everything is kind of uncertain. onions and maybe some kind of sauce.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
pencils and pens and notebooks. a laptop a tablet. maybe a new phone.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
pencils and pens and notebooks. a laptop a tablet. maybe a new phone.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
... well. i guess she's off the market now. and i guess its no skin off my cock.

#megamatzoballs
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
... she said something about the beach and a fish net g string and a large otter. and sand. it gets everywhere. even a woman's crotch. and even a one as unbelievably tight as it gets.

#megamatzoballs
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
well. um. if you want to know the truth. im actually part of the team investigating you know who. and. it. um. it honestly felt like she had sand in her crotch. fine grain sand. gently abrasive. good. but still. she had a sand crotch.

#megamatzoballs

...

Link, Bookmark, and Favorites Dump

...

https://www.lendup.com/#loans

https://www.intownsuites.com/extended-stay-locations/texas/arlington/

https://psiloveyou.xyz/5-qualities-women-find-to-be-the-most-attractive-in-men-5ca3b1ae24bb

https://www.cnbc.com/2020/06/17/communication-and-etiquette-tips-for-the-virtual-workplace.html?__source=Facebook%7CINT&fbclid=IwAR1KXeETBhwVM7W7tzxUzv16ixtpe0h-S9eYp9Yydy-vy0ZcmzXiKFngP1M

https://www.marketwatch.com/story/the-extra-600-americans-get-in-weekly-unemployment-benefits-ends-next-month-heres-what-lawmakers-are-proposing-to-replace-it-2020-06-09

https://www.dol.gov/coronavirus/unemployment-insurance

https://www.dol.gov/coronavirus/unemployment-insurance

alright. done. i really didn't give the computer shopping thing too much thought. or time. but i need to also look at laptop computers. i think during this search. i focused on tablet computers.

is there anything that I need to do? yes! okay. so I remember. i have to look at computers for school. i eventually bought a new one and I really like it, it's faster than my old one, and has more features and it's nice.
what the hell was it that i was thinking about? I was thinking about food, and how I don't really get enough to eat. I have been starving for over a year, and I am hungry.
is there anything that i need to do today? i checked my UTA email, but i don't think that i would have had a response over the weekend.

is there anything that I need to fucking do today? i spent most of the day goofing off. i stayed up late the previous night and I've hardly had any sleep. well. except for the fact that i slept for most of the day today. but before i slept most of the day today. i didn't have much sleep.
it's hot. and I'm tired. the Hot dog is mightier than the Kielbasa. hehehe.

the things i needed to look up were: aggregate loan limits / annual limits / and interest rate / that information turned out to be easiest to find in the master promissory note.

here's the thing. i remember reading this shit already. and the information i found was basically stuff that i really remember reading the first time / the issue was that i found it difficult to look up / shit / distractions / okay so i found the information i was looking for / and / it turned out to be information that i remember reading when i signed the master promissory note / what made me want to double check / i don't remember / some issue or another.

so i guess that turned out to be easier than I thought. so. what to do next?
i need to figure out how to find my pay stubs from work.
some of the things that
are made to be hard are
also easy to deal with when
you figure out how to deal with them.

but one thing that i found is that you can use your student loan money to purchase a computer.
So I figured out what the issue is. The easiest way to figure out what I was looking for, was to read the master promissory note.
The simplified version of the loan details. the button click. scroll around stuff. surprisingly. is actually more difficult for me to understand
I figured this out.

but I guess I tried. I did put
forth my best effort and it
didn't really pay off in the way
that I thought it would now.
and now it is something that
cost me a grip of money.

The more problems I face, the more adaptations I need to make. It's getting to be too much. sometimes. nightmare.
When I start to feel distracted. I start throwing things away.
I know how to deal with this: I have ear plugs.
what do I have to deal with? i really have to read about the student loans stuff.
Let's think. let's remember what happened today. i went to the restaurant to get something to eat, then i went to the library, it was too noisy, so, i figured i wouldn't get anything done, so i went back home, where I'm at right now.

What am I dealing with here? I tried to get stuff done at the library. Trying to figure out student loans is something of a headache, and requires quite a bit of concentration, but, there were just sort of a lot of distractions at the library. This is usually how it goes.

you can separate stuff you need now, from stuff you will eventually need over the following months. the now stuff you can take with you, the later stuff you can ship to yourself as needed at a later point in time.
since you make quilts you can probably ship most things in a bag, like just wrap whatever you want to ship in a quilt, put it in a bag, then ship it to your new residence.

One issue with banker boxes is that they really are kind of expensive in comparison to regular boxes. I think price vs utility can effect the way a person experiences a product.

I renewed my current lease about two months ago for another year, but for some reason I'm kind of always in panic mode. I bought banker boxes but they really aren't suitable for shipping even if decent for storage.

and you can't be the bad
one because you have been
so good to so many people.

anyway, Paul, I still haven't gotten over her after all these years. If you want to, you can meet me in Kansas, and we'll fight over her, fists only, as in: paper, scissors, rock. 
Dwight D. Eisenhower Presidential Library & Museum, 200 S E 4th St, Abilene, KS 67410

but I guess timing is everything, as a suitor, and as a progenitor. She never said anything to me about having a Paul, ever. I was working as a fry cook, my shirts covered in grease, day after day. Only thing she ever said was, was: "I've never seen such hideous shirts!"

there were other opportunities at the time, in fact, Ferdinand Marcos was offering a one way ticket to the bourgeoisie, fully funded by California Boy Ronald Regan himself! I couldn't do it though: my dick was just too fucking big! So, I went to Stalingrad instead!

then there were the times
that we went over to the 
side of the road to see the
roadside flowers and they
turned out to be very nice.

but um, I didn't know she met someone. Five kids? Lucky guy. Unfortunately for me, I was fighting the Wehrmacht in Stalingrad while Pretty Boy Pablo was flirting with the ladies!

Is being charged with a DUI the same as being credited with a DUI? I wonder if he'll ultimately be debited with a DUI? Do you have to be credited with a DUI before being Debited with a DUI? I've never had a DUI.

A Twitter catfish posts risqué photographs and 
actual perverts ask to meet up, sad truth: 
I tried that approach on 
Snapchat and it didn't seem 
to achieve anything, nothing!

No two days are alike
and every day brings new 
surprises and uncertainties.
Residents from the complex are 
swimming in the pool the weather 
is hot, the water is cool.
I think that I have a tendency
to say things that I shouldn't,
and once things are digital,

they're never forgotten:
let's hope that no one has been
reading these.

think about new things
to think about and new
thoughts that do not 
bore you to death.

I'm watching the ceiling fan
spin around and waft hot and
humid air around my room.

I think that I'm not
really interested in things
other than basics.

I'm not really a
leftist except for those times
when the ladies are.

well, I made it almost as far as Oklahoma City, OK. I don't think I'll make it to Abilene, KS. Let's just say you win, Paul, and you can keep Nancy! As for paper📜scissors ✂️rock 🥌, see attachment below: Rock!

I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

i don't really know what to 
do about work. I took some
overtime, but I'm at 2 write-ups
and now I'm on suspension
for the meantime. Jesus. things
are not going well for me.
who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.

I was trying to respond to #cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious you but you didn't seem to
catch on to me trying to write to you
trying to talk to you and trying to figure
out what you're looking for.

and you can send me a naughty
picture of your body and
I will enjoy looking at it
I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.

#cyberinsecurities are those things
that make me think that
Kenneth Larot Yamat
is the best of the best and
makes for a good @KennethLYamat
conversation· with someone new.
dated on May 30th when you
posted a new post.

I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.

A Twitter catfish posts risqué 
photographs and actual perverts
ask to meet up, sad truth: 

I tried that approach on 
Snapchat and it didn't seem 
to achieve anything, nothing!

I tried to get
something good for something
amazing, I sent to box of chocolates
and there was no response.

I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 

not having the same precepts that
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 

not having the same feelings that
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 

not having the same feelings that
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

I feel like less of a person
when we meet in-person
and I'm not as tall of a person
as you would be satisfied with.

the place turned into kind of a bad
place to be, filled with jerks and
self-absorbed punks and people
who basically do things that are
silly.

I feel like less of a person
when my vacations don't
meet your expectations of
what a vacation should be.

I feel like less of a person when
my occupation doesn't meet
your expectations of what an
occupation should be.

I want thoughts as 
complex as your thoughts
feelings as deep 
as your feelings
insecurities as trivial
as your insecurities
hobbies as bougie
as your hobbies
tastes as sophisticated 
as your tastes
and problems as 
first-world as yours

I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions you have, and for 

not having the same precepts
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 

not having the same precepts
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

Relocation:
I renewed my current lease about two months ago for another year, but for some reason I'm kind of always in panic mode. I bought banker boxes but they really aren't suitable for shipping even if decent for storage.

you ended up in a new town.
you ended up in a new city
and met people who were new
to you and they were all nice people.

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 39
What's up? Well. I bought a few lottery tickets. Not in the bizzare way i thought of and mentioned in a previous post. What i did was buy 5 near my apartment. And 3 near my work. And that's it. Buying lottery tickets has always seemed like a silly thing to do. I never win. Not the jackpot anyway.

Buying lottery tickets. Trying to get published. Both of these things seem like silly ideas to me. And neither of them have ever really worked.

I have this funny idea for a series of poems though.

innocuous post 40
Photo dump
i thought
of different
screenshots
stuff that
was really coll [cool] and
this is where you are

are you wearing panties right now?
because it smells nicer in here
that it does in any other place
i've ever been in my entire life.

the two straddles the following counties
caldwell county
clinton county
dekalb county
daviess county
but I wonder if I'm using the word 
straddles correctly? do you think
that I should be using the word BUTTER?
I WON'T USE THE WORD BUTTER!

Relocation:
I'm always prepared to relocate on short notice. I keep enough money on hand to pay early lease / utility termination fees. I keep things boxed intending to mail them to any potential new residential location.

I'm aware of the difference between patents and copyrights, but there isn't a LinkedIn section that allows me to list Copyrights, or Trademarks.
I think that LinkedIn should have a generalized Registered Intellectual Property Section.
the stuff you need now, you can take with you, and it won't cost anything above what you're already spending getting to your new place: whatever you're currently spending on gas or plane tickets.

you can separate stuff you need now, from stuff you will eventually need over the following months. the now stuff you can take with you, the later stuff you can ship to yourself as needed at a later point in time.

since you make quilts you can probably ship most things in a bag, like just wrap whatever you want to ship in a quilt, put it in a bag, then ship it to your new residence.
Relocation:
One issue with banker boxes is that they really are kind of expensive in comparison to regular boxes. I think price vs utility can effect the way a person experiences a product.
yeah, honestly, i'd just sell everything and buy new stuff when you get to your new city.
and think about this: since you are such an amazing craftswoman, you can probably get an Etsy premium, or creative-unique-cool-stuff premium for your stuff. and then just make new stuff when you get to your new place.

but in some ways. the easiest thing to do: it might be easiest just to sell whatever you aren't really emotionally attached to, and buy new stuff online using your new residence as the ship-to location
anyway, i don't know if you have any Danish Cookie scented quilts. or anything. but um. there might be a premium attached to that. i'd buy one, but i didn't see an OnlyFans link on your linktree.

there was something strange
going on in that place some of
the people were a total nightmare
and they were all the best people
most of them anyway.

and this is kind of why i'm somewhat insensitive to current events. there was actually a spike in mass shootings in the DFW area at gentlemen's clubs, and, i feel like i'm the only person who followed the issue.
A Twitter catfish posts risqué
photographs and actual perverts
ask to meet up, sad truth: 

I tried that approach on 
Snapchat and it didn't
accomplish anything, nothing!
I think that the Flying Dutchman should by: A.P. Møller – Mærsk A/S + Vale S.A. + PayPal Holdings, Inc. and do it before 2031, the Year of the Boar. Buying PayPal Holdings, Inc. should be called: The Reconquista.

I'm curious to know how you settled the logistical aspects of relocation: did you sell everything? intending just to buy new things in your new city?
I think that the Flying Dutchman should by: A.P. Møller – Mærsk A/S + Vale S.A. + PayPal Holdings, Inc. and do it before 2031, the Year of the Boar. Buying PayPal Holdings, Inc. should be called: The Reconquista.
A Twitter catfish posts risqué 
photographs  and actual perverts 
ask to meet up, data driven results: 

I tried macking ladies approach on 
Snapchat and after macking 100
beezies I liquidated zero peezies!

I'm trying to think about what
really needs to be done in order
for me to figure this out
more work and a new role and
stuff.

A Twitter catfish posts risqué 
photographs  and actual perverts 
ask to meet up, sad truth: 

I tried macking ladies approach on 
Snapchat and it didn't seem 
to achieve anything, nothing!
In the CCP uses the Yuan (¥) or the Kublai Khan Dollar, the USA uses the USD ($), or, the Ameri Khan Dollar!

A dress from second-hand 
store fabric that you made: I 
would like first-hand experience 
pulling it off your body!

a phony Twitter catfish posts risqué 
photographs and actual perverts 
ask to meet up, as for me? it's never 
worked. data driven results: 

i tried macking numerous ladies on 
Snapchat and after macking 100
beezies I liquidated zero peezies!

it didn't really matter at that point because
you were already kind of established and
had things that you could and couldn't do.

I think the Flying Dutchman should buy: A.P. Møller – Mærsk A/S + Vale S.A. + PayPal Holdings, Inc. and do it before 2031, the Year of the Boar. The Acquisition of PayPal Holdings, Inc. should be called: The Reconquista.

I'm serious; I'm going to make an envelope called: Danish Cookie Scented Envelopes! What other woman in the Milky Way Galaxy will have an envelope patent named after her?
I think I just got some inspiration.

So I think of the # danishcookieuxorious series as being everything from the end of # putinpullout! to this exact tweet. and i'll register a copyright for # danishcookieuxorious, and then start using some other hashtag.

and then I'm going to copyright the lyrics to song titled: "I'm sorry Ms. Jensen, I'm actually not even lying about my intentions."

in addition to all of that: I'm also going to file a patent for the box that the envelopes are sold in, and the patent is going to be filed as: Danish Cookie Flavored Envelope Scented Boxes.
and I'm also going to file a patent for an envelope called: Danish Cookie Flavored Envelopes! and these won't be self-sealing, you'll have to lick and taste these envelopes!
search engine query: is there anyone doing business as: undressing sluts who're funny? and, am I a slut who's funny? also, is the word: slut, a gender-neutral word? is the word: slut, a gender-neutral pronoun?

innocuous post 41
Good lord. I don't want to do any online dating crap. I really don't. My apartment isnt really well suited for having guests over. I dont have a TV. I don't have a bed. Or a couch. I don't have an internet connection either. I just use my fucking phone. And honestly. I don't want anyone moving in with me either.

I don't want a bed. Or a couch. Or a tv. Or a fucking internet connection.
these are anges of clorishallia
the dordeelians of the sheelasee
tofreenolagonia

innocuous post 42
i really struggled with being. kind of. in a state of emotional despair this morning. this is one of those things. where. i know this goes away after a while. but it's never definite as to when it goes away.

Dating profile deletion
I recently purchased the six month A-List 
package for okcupid, and I'm already 
thinking about mothballing this account.
I don't seem to have much success meeting 
people, and I'm not very interested in having 
long drawn out internet conversations.

I don't anticipate using online dating websites much longer.

innocuous post 43
any clothes
hardly wear
and women who
including naked women
that i am looking at
with all the stuff
my data

wasting
that i am 
i think

i don't know what the future holds. not really.
i don't know what's going to come for me in
the next few weeks. I really don't know.

some of #undressingslutswhorefunny
the women there are really funny and 
they say some of  the silliest things I
can think of a person saying. I #searchenginequery
was looking for something new and
for some reason I couldn't find it. I'm serious
things are starting to fall apart for me.

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 37
somewhere in the ancient fortress town called
fort worth there is a winning lottery
ticket waiting to be purchased from bald
man number eight fourteen, he's soldering

a medieval random number picker
known as The Dart Board of Elysium 
which went downward through history, sticker
covered and glued with glitter and gypsum

to cover a crack in it's backside, and here
today, upon the bald man's desk, it sits,
waiting to reunite the forest's deer
with the savannah's antelope, which pits.

fuck this. the poem is fucking stupid.
i would much rather go right back to bed.

like where the fuck was I going to go
with that deer and antelope shit? who knows?

I was just thinking like. i have three lines 
left and i don't know where to take this damn
metaphor, dumb ass deer, dumb ass lions
stupid fucking dart board glued with green ham

and orange eggs. fuck. i had tacos once 
more today. glorious and crispy ones.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 5:29 PM 

search engine query / is there anyone doing business as / undressing sluts who're funny / and / am I a slut / who's funny / also, is the word / slut / a gender-neutral word? / and / is the word / slut / a gender-neutral pronoun? #undressingslutswhorefunny #searchenginequery but where are they they seem to think about new things. they usually have a whole bunch of new ideas and approaches to life and learning and life and living.

anyway. due to bugetary. and. uh. cash-flow issues. i really haven't ended the # DanishCookieUXorious series yet. in fact. i'll have to file a single copyright for my innocuous posts series, and the # DanishCookieUXorious series in a single submission. #DanishCookieUXorious I shouldn't get to worried about this because there are people who do in fact have it worse that I do, but they were hit by eighteen wheelers.

I think of iteration in engineering
as being similar to evolution in biology
one benefit to smaller teams and individualized
development projects is that the the iterations

can progress in isolation, and the products created
iterate divergent from a kind of mainstream, 
most of the time i only talk to my Weiner 
because my ball sack won't listen to me.
listen to me very carefully you Danish Cookie! 
if anyone suggests that my penis is a single centimeter 
plus or minus seven point five inches they're making a 
defamatory remark: anyone who has licked my 
testicles will provide testimony, under oath.
and I'm kind of ticked off by so many of the
other things there. they irritate me a whole lot.

it's really a strange thing when a guy spends some time alone with his weiner, has a conversation with it, and finds out he and his weiner were both born on exactly the same day.

if you ever develop a fondness for me, Danish Cookie, I want to be called: Phallus Photograph 9000, a penis with whom I share a birthday.

i have this idea for a new element of the bureaucracy: the delegation deliberation committee, where a group of senior members of the leadership clan argue over which junior subordinate assumes the most glorious tasks in future of history.

i have this idea for a new element of the bureaucracy: the delegation deliberation committee, where a group of senior members of the leadership clan decide which junior subordinate assumes the most glorious tasks in future of history.
if you ever develop a fondness for me, Danish Cookie, I want to be called: Phallus Photograph 9000, a penis with whom I share a birthday.
listen to me very carefully you Danish Cookie! if anyone suggests that my penis is a single centimeter plus or minus seven point five inches they're making a defamatory remark: anyone who has licked my penis will provide testimony, under oath.

anyway. due to bugetary. and. uh. cash-flow issues. i really haven't ended the # DanishCookieUXorious series yet. in fact. i'll have to file a single copyright for my innocuous posts series, and the # DanishCookieUXorious series in a single submission. 

search engine query: is there anyone doing business as: undressing sluts who're funny? and, am I a slut who's funny? also, is the word: slut, a gender-neutral word? is the word: slut, a gender-neutral pronoun?

#undressingslutswhorefunny some of the people take all of
#searchenginequery their materials and make new things out
of them and they seem to think that the women, who are funny.

Search Engine Query: has anyone told that fucking world of warcraft cryptocurrency pervert that I haven't been in or attended a warcraft orgy since starcraft3 / StarCraft 3.0 came out?

can she refrain from wearing clothes that
smell deeply of butter?
what is the answer to that? is it butter?
I doubt it, I doubt that butter is 
the answer.

innocuous post 44
do you like screenshots or regular shots?
and if you were to
take pictures of your feet, I 
would look at your feet all day
and I would LOOK AT YOUR: FEET!
BUTTER IS NOT THE ANSWER BABY!!!

innocuous post 45
i went to the buffet today, earlier today, and it was more expensive than i expected. it was dinner, and they had the crab special going on.
innocuous post 46

What. Is. What. Thoughts that occupy my mind. Staying happy isn't easy. Or not always easy. Not very easy. Emotions that sink my heart. Not being unhappy isn't easy. Not very easy. Or not always easy.

innocuous post 47
sometimes i feel sad. but it's kind of on and off. sometimes i get bored. sometimes. and sometimes it's on and off.

my mood isn't exactly up or down right now. i remember in elementary school i went to some kind of math summer school, and one guy referred to something that happened as "Bunk" and I had to ask what he meant by that, and he said "up or down." like the word "bunk" meant "up or down" or something. 

i don't mean that my mood is bunk. i just mean that I'm not happy, really, or unhappy. not at this exact moment or anything.

innocuous post 48
do i really need another desk? i don't think so. i want to get started on this writing crap. i just don't know. once. once i get started. the rest should be kind of easy. i think. i remember writing a series of poems based on someone else's series of poems. and it didn't take long to do. but i really don't think. I'm really not sure if my series was really all that spectacular.

writing a series of poems based on someone else's series of poems was easy. the conceptual part. the thinking part was out of the way. she already did that. my part was just to understand what she was saying, and say it my way.

it's kind of like. painting a painting based on someone else's painting.
for some reason you always come around 
here smelling like a deep buttery kind of
thing. you smell nice, and I really like it
and I think you are one of the better smelling
of the bunch.

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 37
somewhere in the ancient fortress town called
fort worth there is a winning lottery
ticket waiting to be purchased from bald
man number eight fourteen, he's soldering

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 36
i'm hungry right now. tacos again. i want to say fuck. but. i love tacos. cheap ones. i mean. and. well. i guess i mean i like not paying a hell of a lot of money for tacos. or. to be. i like when tacos are. you know. have cost efficiencies. or some shit. yeah. i really do. i was looking at my portfolio. i was shocked by how much. you know. shits down and whatever. the other day i tried to check the status of my unemployment claim. i would only be payment for 3 or 4 weeks, but it was during that period when there was a 600 a week bump.

a medieval random number picker
known as The Dart Board of Elysium 
which went downward through history, sticker
covered and glued with glitter and gypsum

Monday, August 31, 2020
This is where the innocuous post 24
Is posted for your reading enjoyment. could have sworn that I just saw. Someone famous. But maybe it was just. someone normal. 
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:56 PM 

to cover a crack in it's backside, and here
today, upon the bald man's desk, it sits,
waiting to reunite the forest's deer
with the savannah's antelope, which pits.

fuck this. the poem is fucking stupid.
i would much rather go right back to bed.

like where the fuck was I going to go
with that deer and antelope shit? who knows?

Monday, August 31, 2020
I innocuous post 23
good lord. i almost bought 4 more silver coins. i have to be careful not to be ridiculous all the time. well. i didn't do it. i have to remember not to do it later on. i'm just concerned that i might do it later on anyway.

it's almost the end of my work week. yesterday was actually pretty nice, there wasn't much downtime and i stayed busy the entire shift. but at one point it was clear that one of my co-workers was intentionally trying to aggravate me. i argued with him briefly, but i realized it was easier to tell him to find someone else to work with. i was already wrapping up my task, i didn't need his help, and he didn't need to loiter near me if we were going to have trouble getting along.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 7:35 PM

I was just thinking like. i have three lines 
left and i don't know where to take this damn
metaphor, dumb ass deer, dumb ass lions
stupid fucking dart board glued with green ham

and orange eggs. fuck. i had tacos once 
more today. glorious and crispy ones.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 5:29 PM 

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 38
Here were a few ideas that i have about trying this whole writing thing again. like fucking again. i thought i wrote this whole bull-shit writer crap off years. fucking years ago. that two years spent like half a decade ago was. i really think. the last time i took writing serious. i have a few ideas though, and, maybe this time it might work out.

the first idea is that i might keep the things i write unpublished on my blog, or anywhere else, for a while. copyright whatever i have once i'm sure i'm finished with it, then try to sell the work with the copyright to publishers.
the second idea is to take a few pieces that i have and see if there is any interest in funding me or offering an advance on a book of 100 or so poems. i just don't know how any of this works.

Search Engine Query: what the fuck, exactly, is a decentralized network? and will my getting involved result in me being designated creampie master to the danish cookie?
#searchenginequery
nessicito arepas, y papusas tamboen, gorditas, y otros comidas. una cenar tres partes deliciousas
idea for a feature for customer relationship management application / vernacular localization / contingent upon occupation / professional or occupation based localization / for example / cosmetics / pharmaceuticals / beverages / agriculture / munitions / petrochemical / energy

idea for a feature for customer relationship management application / vernacular localization / contingent upon occupation / professional or occupation based localization / for example / cosmetics / pharmaceuticals / beverages / agriculture / munitions / petrochemical / energy
nessicito arepas, y papusas tamboen, gorditas, y otros comidas. una cenar tres partes deliciousas

  Artists & Scientists: 
     Samuel Finley Breese Morse
  Bureaucrats & Legislators: 
     Alexander Hamilton
  Entrepreneurs & Magnates: 
     Éleuthère Irénée du Pont de Nemours
  Strategists & Tacticians: 
     John Charles Frémont

idea for a feature for customer relationship management application / vernacular localization / contingent upon occupation / professional or occupation based localization / for example / cosmetics / pharmaceuticals / beverages / agriculture / munitions / petrochemical / energy
damn it, it's actually: lagartos 

Years ago I was at a bar and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian🐊 conspiracy and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians🐙🦑, insectilians🦋, or robotilians🤖.

quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. los ligartes. mas gigantes.
idea for a feature for customer relationship management application / vernacular localization / contingent upon occupation / professional or occupation based localization / for example / cosmetics / pharmaceuticals / beverages / agriculture / munitions / petrochemical / energy

quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. los ligartes. mas gigantes.
quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. mas gigantes.

Emperor Seleucus I said tax credits would be granted to any infrastructure spending by Prince Antiochus I, provided he inflate his reported expenses by no more than 9% of actual costs incurred, and to seek assistance from his cousin Pharaoh Ptolemy II concerning other expenses.

Vladimir Putin I the Mediocre compares himself to Tsar Peter I the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine I the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short. The Hot Dog is mightier than the Keilbasa!

the third idea is to approach literary agents, or whatever, rather than publishers directly. i don't know how that works either.
i have plenty of stamps.

the last approach that i took was the one i had been doing for years. submit my poems to magazines and see if they could get published, and then. i guess, at that point approach publishers or agents with some kind of accomplishments that would give them a reason to work with me.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 7:15 PM 

Sunday, August 30, 2020
innocuous post 19
i'm cleaning a lot of this stuff up right now. i'm starting to think. maybe. i had an issue. like a mental one. but i already knew that.
these are strange times. i don't know. sometimes. what's true and what isn't.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 7:04 PM 

Sunday, August 30, 2020
innocuous post 20
I think. This fucking music is drowning out my thoughts. So. I should probably take a gew months to work on a personal project. And maybe this will be fun. Maybe it'll just be a fantastic waste of time.
I have an idea for this. Actually. How to do this the right way. I spent plenty of money on other experiments. Why not try this.
I don't know.
My head hurts. The temperature in Arlington was very high. And i forgot to leave my window open, so my apartment was basically a hot house the entire day.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:18 PM 

Monday, August 31, 2020
innocuous post 21
these are
screenshots
of different stuff
that i'm really into
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 5:32 PM

Monday, August 31, 2020
N innocuous post 22
cleaning up my blog here and there. this is a nightmare. there is a shit ton of stuff on here. this could take a long fucking time. like what exactly should i focus on? what exactly should i place priority on? i don't really know. i'm just going down the list, and i guess that's what i'll do.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 6:50 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 15
it's still somewhat hard to sleep during the day. it's just so hot. i found some free classes that i can take, that i think that would kind of be useful. i should buy a pair of headphones. 
for now, as far as finding a second job goes. i think i'll hold off on that for now. even the side hustle stuff. except maybe for selling stuff online. i don't imagine that to be too taxing or draining or anything that will leave me fatigued, but i don't have anything to sell, other than. my used clothes. well. a bunch of other stuff too.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 6:41 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 16
"a single H-6J bomber to [Woody Island] should
not be viewed as a game-changer"
China is going to deploy an HJ bomber to 
Woody Island? of course that's not changing
the game. A BJ-4U Interceptor, however, would
create a big fat load of new problems.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:14 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 17
I don't even know what exactly is on my mind. I really dont. Maybe. I'm almost halfway through my weekend.
What makes the days so long? Lacking that which makes them short. The grief is real. It actually is.
On the ride to work today there was a kind of monsoon. My windshield wipers arent that fast. And i had almost no visibility for several miles. My car is really small and light. So the wind really pushes me around. In high winds i roll my windows down. With the rain it was kind of annoying getting all wet.

Even I can be a total jerk sometimes
Just thinking about
things I've done. before.
But who hasn't been a jerk to me?
everyone has been a jerk to me
at one point or another
and fair is fucking fair.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:59 PM
Sunday, August 30, 2020
innocuous post 18
I don't like way this feels. It's really.
It's an unpleasant emotion. I think
about how some conclusions are silly.
The wrong direction. The wrong path. A link
in a chain of incorrect steps that a 
person makes. That a person is bound by.
And maybe it will all work out some day.
Maybe not in the specific way I
had in mind. Here? or somewhere else? now? or
sometime in the distant future? What's life
really all about? Fulfilling those short
term needs like hunger. How many times I've
stared blankly at a bowl of oatmeal and
said: you're not what I want to eat, my friend.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 12:53 AM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 7
after eating at the buffet i was going to head to my mailbox, but the traffic was terrible, so i figured that i would check it later. i did check it the other night. and really. i probably don't need to check it again for a little while longer.
what was i thinking? the second job stuff, and the side hustle stuff. well. i put most of these ideas to the side for the minute. something came up. and i figured that i would put this other stuff to the side for a while.
if i were to sell stuff online. well. i don't really have anything to sell. other than the stuff i bought already. and really don't need.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 5:41 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 8
I guess these are updates about how things have been for me stock market wise.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 6:03 PM

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 9
I started using youtube music. Google play music is being sunset. Or whatever. So i had to transfer my library from one to the other. The youtube music thing has this radio aspect to it. And that's the main aspect of it. The library is secondary. The problem i have with the radio thing is that i skip tons of songs before i find something i like. Ive always used youtube for music. Or at least more for music than anything else.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 8:47 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 10
Im not hungry. But. I feel like getting something to eat. Or drink.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:09 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 11
Find stuff to do. Nothing exacerbates a bad mood. Nothing exacerbates sadness like hanging out around the house. Like driving around town aimlessly. Like listening to sad music. Or aggressive music.

Maybe i should try doing some dating crap. I'm paid up for okcupid until january. So maybe i should do some dating. But dating is such a distraction. But what im i afraid of being distracted from? It's not like i have some amazing horseshit planned with my life.

Right now. My issue is exactly zits. I sweat non stop in this state. I rarely use acne cream. The tube i have still has a bunch in it. But it bleaches my clothes.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:43 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 12
What's on my mind. Well. Another day. I'm usually alone. Breaking the ice. I don't know how to explain it. For me. There's a kind of uneasiness being around other people. And there's this. Kind of a need to try to be pleasant.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 12:46 AM

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 13
Yelp. It occurred to me that i have to clean up yelp too.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:25 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 14
i went to walmart and bought 13 bottles of diet pepsi in the 2 liter size, and a bottle of dole lemonade in the 2 liter size. i also bought a box of white chocolate macadamia cookies.
and this is probably where this blog. devolves. into a daily list of the exact things i did for any particular day.
maybe it doesn't devolve in that direction. maybe it just changes.
i don't know. 
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 2:18 PM 

Saturday, September 5, 2020
innocuous post 48
do i really need another desk? i don't think so. i want to get started on this writing crap. i just don't know. once. once i get started. the rest should be kind of easy. i think. i remember writing a series of poems based on someone else's series of poems. and it didn't take long to do. but i really don't think. i'm really not sure if my series was really all that spectacular.
writing a series of poems based on someone else's series of poems was easy. the conceptual part. the thinking part was out of the way. she already did that. my part was just to understand what she was saying, and say it my way.
it's kind of like. painting a painting based on someone else's painting.
I wish life were easier. Now. Shoes. So i talked with this shoe repair guy and he said 25 bucks for heel replacement. But did he mean per heel? Or per pair? So i have five shoes in need of heel replacement. Im hoping that it would only cost 65 dollars for all of them. And my mom. My mom is back thank fucking god.

Thursday, August 27, 2020
innocuous post 1
i may have to make some revisions to my. i guess. total online presence. social media and whatever else. i was going to start with pinterest. i turns out i have a different pinterest on my computer. and a different pinterest on my phone.
just to make sure i was using the word innocuous correctly, i looked the word up in the dictionary and came across the word:
anodyne
what i've concluded from the definitions of the two words is that anodyne is different from innocuous in that it refers to intentionally, or deliberately being innocuous.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:11 PM 

i'm not ready for whatever
is about to happen next in 
my life. this is not going well
and I can't believe this is really
happening to me all over again.

Thursday, August 27, 2020
innocuous post 2
i think that i've cleaned up the main social media stuff that i need to. i have a few other things too, i'll get to them soon.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 10:52 PM 

Thursday, August 27, 2020
innocuous post 3
blog page removal. notes from other stuff.
Submit your poetry to Chestnut and Hazel by using the submissions box at the side of the page.
here are more things
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 10:54 PM 

Thursday, August 27, 2020
innocuous post 4
this posts
had a number
of screenshots
of stamps that i wanted to buy, and that I think
i actually eventually purchased.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 11:04 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 5
I'm at the buffet. Eating. Well. Of course I'm eating. I have to check again about the second job stuff. But there are potential issues that may come up if overtime is required at either job. However. There would only be the potential of overlap of shifts one day a week. I have 1 specific 2nd job in mind. And it's the one I'm trying to work out in my head.
My current job and the potential second job are on opposite sides of FT Worth, this isn't necessarily a problem because I live in Arlington, it's in the middle of these two locations.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:16 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 6
Finished lunch. I have to figure something out. Money wise.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:54 PM 

Dating profile deletion
I recently purchased the six month A-List package for okcupid, and I'm already thinking about mothballing this account.
I don't seem to have much success meeting people, and I'm not very interested in having long drawn out internet conversations.
I don't anticipate using online dating websites much longer.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 2:08 PM 

Friday, September 4, 2020
innocuous post 43
any clothes
hardly wear
and women who
including naked women
that i am looking at
with all the stuff
my data
wasting
that i am 
i think
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 3:33 PM 

Friday, September 4, 2020
innocuous post 44
do you like screenshots or regular shots?
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 4:06 PM 

Friday, September 4, 2020
innocuous post 45
i went to the buffet today, earlier today, and it was more expensive than i expected. it was dinner, and they had the crab special going on.
caldwell
clinton   
dekalb
daviess
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:16 PM 

Friday, September 4, 2020
innocuous post 46
What. Is. What. Thoughts that occupy my mind. Staying happy isn't easy. Or not always easy. Not very easy. Emotions that sink my heart. Not being unhappy isn't easy. Not very easy. Or not always easy.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 10:22 PM 

Saturday, September 5, 2020
innocuous post 47
sometimes i feel sad. but it's kind of on and off. sometimes i get bored. sometimes. and sometimes it's on and off.
my mood isn't exactly up or down right now. i remember in elementary school i went to some kind of math summer school, and one guy referred to something that happened as "Bunk" and I had to ask what he meant by that, and he said "up or down." like the word "bunk" meant "up or down" or something. 
i don't mean that my mood is bunk. i just mean that i'm not happy, really, or unhappy. not at this exact moment or anything.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 3:24 PM 

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 36
i'm hungry right now. tacos again. i want to say fuck. but. i love tacos. cheap ones. i mean. and. well. i guess i mean i like not paying a hell of a lot of money for tacos. or. to be. i like when tacos are. you know. have cost efficiencies. or some shit. yeah. i really do. i was looking at my portfolio. i was shocked by how much. you know. shits down and whatever. the other day i tried to check the status of my unemployment claim. i would only be payment for 3 or 4 weeks, but it was during that period when there was a 600 a week bump.

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 38
Here were a few ideas that i have about trying this whole writing thing again. like fucking again. i thought i wrote this whole bull-shit writer crap off years. fucking years ago. that two years spent like half a decade ago was. i really think. the last time i took writing serious. i have a few ideas though, and, maybe this time it might work out.
the first idea is that i might keep the things i write unpublished on my blog, or anywhere else, for a while. copyright whatever i have once i'm sure i'm finished with it, then try to sell the work with the copyright to publishers.
the second idea is to take a few pieces that i have and see if there is any interest in funding me or offering an advance on a book of 100 or so poems. i just don't know how any of this works.
the third idea is to approach literary agents, or whatever, rather than publishers directly. i don't know how that works either.
i have plenty of stamps.
the last approach that i took was the one i had been doing for years. submit my poems to magazines and see if they could get published, and then. i guess, at that point approach publishers or agents with some kind of accomplishments that would give them a reason to work with me.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 7:15 PM 

Monday, August 31, 2020
innocuous post 21
these are
screenshots
of different stuff
that i'm really into
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 5:32 PM

Monday, August 31, 2020
N innocuous post 22
cleaning up my blog here and there. this is a nightmare. there is a shit ton of stuff on here. this could take a long fucking time. like what exactly should i focus on? what exactly should i place priority on? i don't really know. i'm just going down the list, and i guess that's what i'll do.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 6:50 PM 

Monday, August 31, 2020
I innocuous post 23
good lord. i almost bought 4 more silver coins. i have to be careful not to be ridiculous all the time. well. i didn't do it. i have to remember not to do it later on. i'm just concerned that i might do it later on anyway.
it's almost the end of my work week. yesterday was actually pretty nice, there wasn't much downtime and i stayed busy the entire shift. but at one point it was clear that one of my co-workers was intentionally trying to aggravate me. i argued with him briefly, but i realized it was easier to tell him to find someone else to work with. i was already wrapping up my task, i didn't need his help, and he didn't need to loiter near me if we were going to have trouble getting along.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 7:35 PM

Monday, August 31, 2020
T innocuous post 24
I could have sworn that i just saw. Someone famous. But maybe it was just. someone normal. 
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:56 PM 

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 39
What's up? Well. I bought a few lottery tickets. Not in the bizzare way i thought of and mentioned in a previous post. What i did was buy 5 near my apartment. And 3 near my work. And that's it. Buying lottery tickets has always seemed like a silly thing to do. I never win. Not the jackpot anyway.
Buying lottery tickets. Trying to get published. Both of these things seem like silly ideas to me. And neither of them have ever really worked.
I have this funny idea for a series of poems though.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 8:56 PM 

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 40
Photo dump
i thought
of different
screenshots
stuff that
was really coll [cool] and
this is where you are

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 8:59 PM 
are you wearing panties right now?
because it smells nicer in here
that it does in any other place
i've ever been in my entire life.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 2:19 PM

Thursday, September 3, 2020
innocuous post 41
Good lord. I don't want to do any online dating crap. I really don't. My apartment isnt really well suited for having guests over. I dont have a TV. I don't have a bed. Or a couch. I don't have an internet connection either. I just use my fucking phone. And honestly. I don't want anyone moving in with me either.
I don't want a bed. Or a couch. Or a tv. Or a fucking internet connection.
these are anges of clorishallia
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 10:18 PM 
Friday, September 4, 2020
innocuous post 42
i really struggled with being. kind of. in a state of emotional despair this morning. this is one of those things. where. i know this goes away after a while. but it's never definite as to when it goes away.

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 14
i went to walmart and bought 13 bottles of diet pepsi in the 2 liter size, and a bottle of dole lemonade in the 2 liter size. i also bought a box of white chocolate macadamia cookies.
and this is probably where this blog. devolves. into a daily list of the exact things i did for any particular day.
maybe it doesn't devolve in that direction. maybe it just changes.
i don't know. 
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 2:18 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 15
it's still somewhat hard to sleep during the day. it's just so hot. i found some free classes that i can take, that i think that would kind of be useful. i should buy a pair of headphones. 
for now, as far as finding a second job goes. i think i'll hold off on that for now. even the side hustle stuff. except maybe for selling stuff online. i don't imagine that to be too taxing or draining or anything that will leave me fatigued, but i don't have anything to sell, other than. my used clothes. well. a bunch of other stuff too.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 6:41 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 16
"a single H-6J bomber to [Woody Island] should
not be viewed as a game-changer"
China is going to deploy an HJ bomber to 
Woody Island? of course that's not changing
the game. A BJ-4U Interceptor, however, would
create a big fat load of new problems.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:14 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 17
I don't even know what exactly is on my mind. I really dont. Maybe. I'm almost halfway through my weekend.
What makes the days so long? Lacking that which makes them short. The grief is real. It actually is.
On the ride to work today there was a kind of monsoon. My windshield wipers arent that fast. And i had almost no visibility for several miles. My car is really small and light. So the wind really pushes me around. In high winds i roll my windows down. With the rain it was kind of annoying getting all wet.
Even I can be a total jerk sometimes
Just thinking about
things I've done. before.
But who hasn't been a jerk to me?
everyone has been a jerk to me
at one point or another
and fair is fucking fair.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:59 PM

Sunday, August 30, 2020
innocuous post 18
I don't like way this feels. It's really.
It's an unpleasant emotion. I think
about how some conclusions are silly.
The wrong direction. The wrong path. A link
in a chain of incorrect steps that a 
person makes. That a person is bound by.
And maybe it will all work out some day.
Maybe not in the specific way I
had in mind. Here? or somewhere else? now? or
sometime in the distant future? What's life
really all about? Fulfilling those short
term needs like hunger. How many times I've
stared blankly at a bowl of oatmeal and
said: you're not what I want to eat, my friend.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 12:53 AM 

Sunday, August 30, 2020
innocuous post 19
i'm cleaning a lot of this stuff up right now. i'm starting to think. maybe. i had an issue. like a mental one. but i already knew that.
these are strange times. i don't know. sometimes. what's true and what isn't.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 7:04 PM 

Sunday, August 30, 2020
innocuous post 20
I think. This fucking music is drowning out my thoughts. So. I should probably take a gew months to work on a personal project. And maybe this will be fun. Maybe it'll just be a fantastic waste of time.
I have an idea for this. Actually. How to do this the right way. I spent plenty of money on other experiments. Why not try this.
I don't know.
My head hurts. The temperature in Arlington was very high. And i forgot to leave my window open, so my apartment was basically a hot house the entire day.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:18 PM 

Vladimir Putin I the Mediocre compares himself to Tsar Peter I the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine I the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short. The Boudin is mightier than the Keilbasa!
Vladimir Putin compares himself to Tsar Peter the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short.

Vladimir Putin compares himself to Tsar Peter the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Short
but basically, the 250K valuation of Chestnut + Hazel is based on my most recent round of series D seed funding from the Kenneth Larot Yamat venture fund of 130 USD for a .052 % equity stake. hehehe. my burn rate is remarkably low. hehe anyway.um, i actually increased my net worth to 250K, year to date, but 271K of that is due to stretched and lofty valuations of my. you know. my publishing enterprise. hehehe!

blogging is such a huge distraction. Kind of a headache
and when I have to do a whole bunch of revisions this
is a nightmare.

I'm not prepared for whatever it
is that happens next really not
prepared. this is a headache.

quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. mas gigantes.

Vladimir Putin I the Mediocre compares himself to Tsar Peter I the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine I the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short. The Hot Dog is mightier than the Keilbasa!

quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. los ligartes. mas gigantes.
quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. los ligartes. mas gigantes.

but um, one thing i want to point out about your endless chatter about a 60k salary as being insufficient, there are actually quite a few people who, I think have a salary of zero dollars annually, they're wealthy because of their equity positions.I guess I could finish that Circuit City piece by Sotomayor.

there's a kind of limit to how many times i want to read a reiterated article on the same tending topic, even if the subject matter becomes incrementally more interesting day after day.
what was i thinking about? i don't mind pay-walls, it's just that i have to deal with about 50 - 100 per day, and it isn't clear to me if there's an all access pay-wall pass to every periodical in existence.
damn it, it's actually: lagartos

Vladimir Putin I the Mediocre compares himself to Tsar Peter I the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine I the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short. The Hot Dog is mightier than the Keilbasa!
Vladimir Putin I the Mediocre compares himself to Tsar Peter I the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine I the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short. The Boudin is mightier than the Keilbasa!
Vladimir Putin compares himself to Tsar Peter the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short.

Vladimir Putin compares himself to Tsar Peter the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Short. i am not prepared for whatever it is that happens next.

Thursday, August 27, 2020
innocuous post 4
this posts
had a number
of screenshots
of stamps that i wanted to buy, and that I think
i actually eventually purchased.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 11:04 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 5
I'm at the buffet. Eating. Well. Of course I'm eating. I have to check again about the second job stuff. But there are potential issues that may come up if overtime is required at either job. However. There would only be the potential of overlap of shifts one day a week. I have 1 specific 2nd job in mind. And it's the one I'm trying to work out in my head.

My current job and the potential second job are on opposite sides of FT Worth, this isn't necessarily a problem because I live in Arlington, it's in the middle of these two locations.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:16 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 6
Finished lunch. I have to figure something out. Money wise.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:54 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 7
after eating at the buffet i was going to head to my mailbox, but the traffic was terrible, so i figured that i would check it later. i did check it the other night. and really. i probably don't need to check it again for a little while longer.

what was i thinking? the second job stuff, and the side hustle stuff. well. i put most of these ideas to the side for the minute. something came up. and i figured that i would put this other stuff to the side for a while.
if i were to sell stuff online. well. i don't really have anything to sell. other than the stuff i bought already. and really don't need.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 5:41 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 8
I guess these are updates about how things have been for me stock market wise.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 6:03 PM

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 9
I started using youtube music. Google play music is being sunset. Or whatever. So i had to transfer my library from one to the other. The youtube music thing has this radio aspect to it. And that's the main aspect of it. The library is secondary. The problem i have with the radio thing is that i skip tons of songs before i find something i like. Ive always used youtube for music. Or at least more for music than anything else.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 8:47 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 10
Im not hungry. But. I feel like getting something to eat. Or drink.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:09 PM 

Friday, August 28, 2020
innocuous post 11
Find stuff to do. Nothing exacerbates a bad mood. Nothing exacerbates sadness like hanging out around the house. Like driving around town aimlessly. Like listening to sad music. Or aggressive music.
Maybe i should try doing some dating crap. I'm paid up for okcupid until january. So maybe i should do some dating. But dating is such a distraction. But what im i afraid of being distracted from? It's not like i have some amazing horseshit planned with my life.
Right now. My issue is exactly zits. I sweat non stop in this state. I rarely use acne cream. The tube i have still has a bunch in it. But it bleaches my clothes.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:43 PM 

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 12
What's on my mind. Well. Another day. I'm usually alone. Breaking the ice. I don't know how to explain it. For me. There's a kind of uneasiness being around other people. And there's this. Kind of a need to try to be pleasant.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 12:46 AM

Saturday, August 29, 2020
innocuous post 13
Yelp. It occurred to me that i have to clean up yelp too.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:25 PM 

So I think of the # danishcookieuxorious series as being everything from the end of # putinpullout! to this exact tweet. and i'll register a copyright for # danishcookieuxorious, and then start using some other hashtag.
and then I'm going to copyright the lyrics to song titled: "I'm sorry Ms. Jensen, I'm actually not even lying about my intentions."
in addition to all of that: I'm also going to file a patent for the box that the envelopes are sold in, and the patent is going to be filed as: Danish Cookie Flavored Envelope Scented Boxes.
and I'm also going to file a patent for an envelope called: Danish Cookie Flavored Envelopes! and these won't be self-sealing, you'll have to lick and taste these envelopes!

this is going to take a while longer
I didn't really know how long
this post really was but it was
a series of other posts with
content from around the web
from my social media profiles.

i dont know how i feel right now. Akward i guess. I did something weird at work. And im still all weirded out about it. And i dont know. How i feel. Fuck.

Thursday, August 27, 2020
innocuous post 1
i may have to make some revisions to my. i guess. total online presence. social media and whatever else. i was going to start with pinterest. i turns out i have a different pinterest on my computer. and a different pinterest on my phone.
just to make sure i was using the word innocuous correctly, i looked the word up in the dictionary and came across the word:
anodyne
what i've concluded from the definitions of the two words is that anodyne is different from innocuous in that it refers to intentionally, or deliberately being innocuous.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:11 PM 

Thursday, August 27, 2020
innocuous post 2
i think that i've cleaned up the main social media stuff that i need to. i have a few other things too, i'll get to them soon.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 10:52 PM 

Thursday, August 27, 2020
innocuous post 3
blog page removal. notes from other stuff.
Submit your poetry to Chestnut and Hazel by using the submissions box at the side of the page.
here are more things
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 10:54 PM 

A Twitter catfish posts risqué 
photographs  and actual perverts 
ask to meet up, sad truth: 

I tried macking ladies approach on 
Snapchat and it didn't seem 
to achieve anything, nothing!
In the CCP uses the Yuan (¥) or 
the Kublai Khan Dollar, the USA 
uses the USD ($), or, the Ameri Khan Dollar!

A dress from second-hand 
store fabric that you made: I 
would like first-hand experience 
pulling it off your body!

a phony Twitter catfish posts risqué 
photographs and actual perverts 
ask to meet up, as for me? it's never 
worked. data driven results: 

i tried macking numerous ladies on 
Snapchat and after macking 100
beezies I liquidated zero peezies!

I think the Flying Dutchman should buy: A.P. Møller – Mærsk A/S + Vale S.A. + PayPal Holdings, Inc. and do it before 2031, the Year of the Boar. The Acquisition of PayPal Holdings, Inc. should be called: The Reconquista.
I'm serious; I'm going to make an envelope called: Danish Cookie Scented Envelopes! What other woman in the Milky Way Galaxy will have an envelope patent named after her?
I think I just got some inspiration.

May 30
and this is kind of why i'm somewhat insensitive to current events. there was actually a spike in mass shootings in the DFW area at gentlemen's clubs, and, i feel like i'm the only person who followed the issue.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 4
A Twitter catfish posts risqué
photographs and actual perverts
ask to meet up, sad truth: 
I tried that approach on 
Snapchat and it didn't
accomplish anything, nothing!
#DanishCookieUxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 4
I think that the Flying Dutchman should by: A.P. Møller – Mærsk A/S + Vale S.A. + PayPal Holdings, Inc. and do it before 2031, the Year of the Boar. Buying PayPal Holdings, Inc. should be called: The Reconquista.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
Jun 4
I'm curious to know how you settled the logistical aspects of relocation: did you sell everything? intending just to buy new things in your new city?
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
Jun 4
I think that the Flying Dutchman should by: A.P. Møller – Mærsk A/S + Vale S.A. + PayPal Holdings, Inc. and do it before 2031, the Year of the Boar. Buying PayPal Holdings, Inc. should be called: The Reconquista.
#DanishCookieUxorious

Kenneth Larot Yamat
Jun 4
A Twitter catfish posts risqué 
photographs  and actual perverts 
ask to meet up, data driven results: 
I tried macking ladies approach on 
Snapchat and after macking 100
beezies I liquidated zero peezies!

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30
Relocation:
One issue with banker boxes is that they really are kind of expensive in comparison to regular boxes. I think price vs utility can effect the way a person experiences a product.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30

yeah, honestly, i'd just sell everything and buy new stuff when you get to your new city.
#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30

and think about this: since you are such an amazing craftswoman, you can probably get an Etsy premium, or creative-unique-cool-stuff premium for your stuff. and then just make new stuff when you get to your new place.
#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30

but in some ways. the easiest thing to do: it might be easiest just to sell whatever you aren't really emotionally attached to, and buy new stuff online using your new residence as the ship-to location
#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30

anyway, i don't know if you have any Danish Cookie scented quilts. or anything. but um. there might be a premium attached to that. i'd buy one, but i didn't see an OnlyFans link on your linktree.
but basically, the 250K valuation of Chestnut + Hazel is based on my most recent round of series D seed funding from the Kenneth Larot Yamat venture fund of 130 USD for a .052 % equity stake. hehehe. my burn rate is remarkably low. hehe anyway.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

16h
um, i actually increased my net worth to 250K, year to date, but 271K of that is due to stretched and lofty valuations of my. you know. my publishing enterprise. hehehe!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

there was something
there and she new it
boobies are the key
to happiness.

16h
but um, one thing i want to point out about your endless chatter about a 60k salary as being insufficient, there are actually quite a few people who, I think have a salary of zero dollars annually, they're wealthy because of their equity positions.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

16h
I guess I could finish that Circuit City piece by Sotomayor.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

16h
there's a kind of limit to how many times i want to read a reiterated article on the same tending topic, even if the subject matter becomes incrementally more interesting day after day.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

16h
what was i thinking about? i don't mind pay-walls, it's just that i have to deal with about 50 - 100 per day, and it isn't clear to me if there's an all access pay-wall pass to every periodical in existence.
not really
ready for whatever
happens next whatever is
in store for me.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
Jun 8
i think that the return to the office (RTO) movement is a joint conspiracy on the part of the automobile cartel, and the vehicle mafia to sell more cars! how do i know? simple: cui bono!
#cyclamateandwater

i am not prepared for whatever
it is that happens next not 
really sure
i'm ready for the next stage in my 
life whatever that happens to be.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 8
i think that the return to the office (RTO) movement is a joint conspiracy on the part of the automobile cartel, and the vehicle mafia to sell more cars!
#cyclamateandwater
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

47m
idea for a feature for customer relationship management application / vernacular localization / contingent upon occupation / professional or occupation based localization / for example / cosmetics / pharmaceuticals / beverages / agriculture / munitions / petrochemical / energy
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

54m
damn it, it's actually: lagartos
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

59m
quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. los ligartes. mas gigantes.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

1h
quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. los ligartes. mas gigantes.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

1h
quiero comer los ligartes. alligatores y crocodillos. con los tortillas de harina. con los jalapenos y los chiles. ligartes. mas gigantes.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

4h
Vladimir Putin I the Mediocre compares himself to Tsar Peter I the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine I the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short. The Hot Dog is mightier than the Keilbasa!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

4h
Vladimir Putin I the Mediocre compares himself to Tsar Peter I the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine I the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short. The Boudin is mightier than the Keilbasa!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

7h
Vladimir Putin compares himself to Tsar Peter the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Mediocre's reunification efforts have fallen short.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

7h
Vladimir Putin compares himself to Tsar Peter the Great? Well, he already tried comparing Himself to Basileus Constantine the Great, however, Vladimir Putin the Short
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

15h
but basically, the 250K valuation of Chestnut + Hazel is based on my most recent round of series D seed funding from the Kenneth Larot Yamat venture fund of 130 USD for a .052 % equity stake. hehehe. my burn rate is remarkably low. hehe anyway.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

i don;t what to do
i mean i have a few
ideas but
nothing is sure
and i'm really scared
about what to do next.
i really am i have
no cushion.

16h
um, i actually increased my net worth to 250K, year to date, but 271K of that is due to stretched and lofty valuations of my. you know. my publishing enterprise. hehehe!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

16h
but um, one thing i want to point out about your endless chatter about a 60k salary as being insufficient, there are actually quite a few people who, I think have a salary of zero dollars annually, they're wealthy because of their equity positions.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

16h
I guess I could finish that Circuit City piece by Sotomayor.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

16h
there's a kind of limit to how many times i want to read a reiterated article on the same tending topic, even if the subject matter becomes incrementally more interesting day after day.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

i don't know what route
to take right now. just
risk it or play it safe
and steady.

16h
what was i thinking about? i don't mind pay-walls, it's just that i have to deal with about 50 - 100 per day, and it isn't clear to me if there's an all access pay-wall pass to every periodical in existence.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 8
i think that the return to the office (RTO) movement is a joint conspiracy on the part of the automobile cartel, and the vehicle mafia to sell more cars! how do i know? simple: cui bono!
#cyclamateandwater
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 8
i think that the return to the office (RTO) movement is a joint conspiracy on the part of the automobile cartel, and the vehicle mafia to sell more cars!
#cyclamateandwater
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 7
"...all possible measures should be implemented to avoid following the bad example set
by Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. (MFG)"
This is a shareholder proposal from the Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. (MUFG) annual meeting.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 8
I would totally put forward shareholder proposals during the Twitter, Inc. (TWTR) annual meeting, calling out Meta Platforms, Inc. (FB), and vice versa, and I would just do that all day long. Then I'd do Kansas City Southern V. Union Pacific. All day. Serious.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

after not quire a year,
here i am waiting to get
out of this hole and
this is a nightmare.

Jun 7
Replying to 
@KennethLYamat
and then I would do Conagra and call out Hormel. I would do AT&T and call out Verizon. I would then put forward a proposal at Exxon, calling out Chevron, and then another one, at Pfizer, calling out AstraZeneca.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 8
here's another one, and it happens in a sequence: I'll put forward a proposal at Mondelez calling out Nestle, regarding chocolates, and then a proposal at Nestle calling out Abbott Labs, regarding baby formula.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 7
This is the funniest thing I've read in a long time:
"...all possible measures should be implemented to avoid following the bad example set
by Mizuho Financial Group, Inc."
This is shareholder proposal from MUFG's annual meeting.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 7
i think of cyclamate as being artificially sweet, and unnaturally sweet, sweetness doesn't come naturally, i think of cyclamate as something dangerous, but i also think of cyclamate as having less substance than sugar!
#cyclamateandwater
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
Jun 7

this a reference to: sugar and water, the preferred beverage of cockroach man from outer space!
i think of cyclamate as being artificially sweet, meaning being sweet isn't natural, but i also think of cyclamate as being dangerous.
#cyclamateandwater
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 7
it's hot, and i realize that
my mood has a flipped 
relationship with the weather.

when it's sunny: i feel
under the weather, and when
its gloomy: i feel animated.

#cyclamateandwater

this a reference to: sugar and water, the preferred beverage of cockroach man.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 7
it's hot, and i realize that
my mood has a flipped 
relationship with the weather.

when it's sunny: i feel
under the weather, and when
its gloomy: i feel animated.

#
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 7
it's hot, and i realize that
my mood has a flipped 
relationship with the weather.

when it's sunny: i feel
under the weather, and when
its gloomy: i feel animated.

* * *

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 6
So I think of the # danishcookieuxorious series as being everything from the end of # putinpullout! to this exact tweet. and i'll register a copyright for # danishcookieuxorious, and then start using some other hashtag.

#DanishCookieUxorious

* * *

... and then I would do Conagra and call out Hormel. I would do AT&T and call out Verizon. I would then put forward a proposal at Exxon, calling out Chevron, and then another one, at Pfizer, calling out AstraZeneca.
7:06 PM · Jun 7, 2022·Twitter Web App
View Tweet analytics

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
11h
Replying to 
@KennethLYamat
... here's another one, and it happens in a sequence: I'll put forward a proposal at Mondelez calling out Nestle, regarding chocolates, and then a proposal at Nestle calling out Abbott Labs, regarding baby formula.



Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
22h
Replying to 
@KennethLYamat
I would totally put forward shareholder proposals during the Twitter, Inc. (TWTR) annual meeting, calling out Meta Platforms, Inc. (FB), and vice versa, and I would just do that all day long. Then I'd do Kansas City Southern V. Union Pacific. All day. Serious.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
22h
and then I would do Conagra and call out Hormel. I would do AT&T and call out Verizon. I would then put forward a proposal at Exxon, calling out Chevron, and then another one, at Pfizer, calling out AstraZeneca.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

11h
here's another one, and it happens in a sequence: I'll put forward a proposal at Mondelez calling out Nestle, regarding chocolates, and then a proposal at Nestle calling out Abbott Labs, regarding baby formula.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

11h
Replying to 
@KennethLYamat
I would totally put forward shareholder proposals during the Twitter, Inc. (TWTR) annual meeting, calling out Meta Platforms, Inc. (FB), and vice versa, and I would just do that all day long. Then I'd do Kansas City Southern V. Union Pacific. All day. Serious.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 6
So I think of the # danishcookieuxorious series as being everything from the end of # putinpullout! to this exact tweet. and i'll register a copyright for # danishcookieuxorious, and then start using some other hashtag.
#DanishCookieUxorious

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 7
it's hot, and i realize that
my mood has a flipped 
relationship with the weather.

when it's sunny: i feel
under the weather, and when
its gloomy: i feel animated.
#cyclamateandwater

this a reference to: sugar and water, the preferred beverage of cockroach man.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 7
it's hot, and i realize that
my mood has a flipped 
relationship with the weather.

when it's sunny: i feel
under the weather, and when
its gloomy: i feel animated.

#
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 7
it's hot, and i realize that
my mood has a flipped 
relationship with the weather.

when it's sunny: i feel
under the weather, and when
its gloomy: i feel animated.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

Jun 7
i think of cyclamate as being artificially sweet, and unnaturally sweet, sweetness doesn't come naturally, i think of cyclamate as something dangerous, but i also think of cyclamate as having less substance than sugar!

#cyclamateandwater
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 13
Mod mode dev tools and open source code has greater utility then God mode N00B codes!

#UX
#userexperience
#nintendosUX
#atarisUX
#SEX
#SubstantiallybetterEXperience
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 13
Mod mode dev tools and open source code has greater utility then God mode N00B codes!

#UX
#userexperience
#nintendo
#atari
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 12
I know, with 91% statistical confidence, that my Mandarins were filled with Orange Juice, and with 91% statistical certainty, that my Oranges were filled with Mandarin Juice! From the bottom of my gut! My navel is about to burst with something somewhat similar to stomach sauce.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

there are too many
things going on right now.

May 12
I know, with 91% statistical confidence, that my Mandarins were filled with Orange Juice, and with 91% statistical certainty, that my Oranges were filled with Mandarin Juice! My navel is about to burst with something I can only be say is somewhat acidic.

#USFoodDept.com,INC
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 12
With 91% statistical confidence I know that my Mandarins were filled with Orange Juice and with a 91% statistical certainty, that my Oranges were filled with Mandarin Juice! My navel is about to burst with something I can only be say is somewhat acidic.

#USFoodDept.com,INC
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 12
With 91% statistical confidence I know that my Mandarins were filled with Orange Juice, and with a 91% statistical certainty, that my Oranges were filled with Mandarin Juice! My navel is about to burst with something I can only be say is somewhat acidic.

#USFoodDept.com,INC
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 12
I can't believe the Eskimo 5 pipeline was shut down! How are fat Russian oligarchs going to run their super yachts? On whale blubber? Oilgarchs and Gasgarchs hide money from Grannygarchs! Grannygarchs have revenge! True Eskimos run kayaks on whale blubber anyway!

#GILFconspiracy
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 12
I can't believe the Eskimo 5 pipeline was shut down! How are the Russian oligarchs going to run their super yachts? Whale blubber? Oilgarchs and Gasgarchs hide money from Grannygarchs! Grannygarchs have revenge! True Eskimos run kayaks on whale blubber anyway!

#GILFconspiracy
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 12
I was told that inflation conquers all, but then this GILF started talking about Cost of Living Adjustments (COLA), and Treasury Inflation Protected Securities (TIPS), GILFs don't suffer from inflation the way I suffer!

May 13
I want to outline four user experience design and engineering principles: xenomorphic, yautjaistic, humanoid, and robotoid.

#UX
#UXdesign
#UXengineering
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 13
User experience feedback:
"It's a paperweight."
"I'm not a xenomorph!"
"Do I look like a Klingon?"
"I don't know what this is."

"I'm starting at 000 
and working my way 
up to 999"
"Open sesame!"

#UX
#userexperience
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 13
User experience feedback:

"It's a paperweight."

"I'm not a xenomorph!"
"Do I look like a Klingon?"
"I don't what this is."

"I'm starting at 000 
and working my way 
up to 999"

"Open sesame!"

#UX
#userexperience
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

man
yeah things
are not going well things
are a disaster
i guess
things were on
a kind of cruise control
not too long ago.

May 13
User experience feedback:

"It's a paperweight."
"I'm not a xenomorph!"
"Do I look like a Klingon?"
"I don't what this is."
"I'm starting at 000 
and working my way 
up to 999"

#UX
#userexperience

I don't think the granny slut gilf-garch from the ministry of truth should edit anyone's comments! my rouble is 7.5 american inches, and and yields 7.5 british pounds for every 7.5 russian kilometers, of perimeter when measured with an electron micro-scope!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 15
I don't think the granny slut gilf-garch from the ministry of truth should edit anyone's comments! my rouble is 7.5 american inches, and and yields 7.5 british pounds for every 7.5 russian kilometers, of perimeter!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 15
I don't think the granny slut gilf-garch from the ministry of truth should edit anyone's comments! my rouble is 7.5 american inches, and and yields 7.5 british pounds for every 7.4 russian kilometers, of perimeter!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 15
I figured out exactly how to use the antikythera mechanism: it's a paper weight. Other than that? I don't know; some kind of ancient xenomorph or yautja compass-sextant-astrolabe-GPS navigation bullshit?

#UX
#UXdesign
#UXengineering
#userexperienceforarcheologists
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 15
I figured out exactly how to use the antikythera mechanism: it's a paper weight. Other than that? I don't know; some kind of ancient xenomorph or yatuja compas-sextant-astrolabe-GPS navigation bullshit?

#UX
#UXdesign
#UXengineering
#userexperienceforarcheologists
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 15
Kungpao Cougars favor the gold.

#grannygarch
#GILFconspiracy
#kungpaoCougars
#compoundinterest
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 15
I can't believe the Eskimo 5 pipeline was shut down! How are fat Russian oligarchs going to run their super yachts? On whale blubber? Oil garchs and Gasgarchs hide money from Grannygarchs! Grannygarchs get revenge! True Eskimos run kayaks on whale blubber anyway!

#dmitryrogozin
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 15
I can't believe the Eskimo 5 pipeline was shut down! How are fat Russian oligarchs going to run their super yachts? On whale blubber? Oil garchs and Gasgarchs hide money from Grannygarchs! Grannygarchs have revenge! True Eskimos run kayaks on whale blubber anyway!

#dmitryrogozin
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 15
Compound interest favors the old.

these dreams
are becoming 
nightmares
i did see a role that i was interested
in and i don't know what to do.

#grannygarch
#GILFconspiracy
#kungpaoCougars

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 18
Do you approve of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor?

Yes   1%
No    0%
1 votes

In fact, I want to clerk for Justice Sotomayor, and when I'm on the U.S. Supreme Court, I'll opine conservative views with more bravado than Scalia AND take Justice Sotomayor to the Ballet!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 18
Do you approve of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor?

Yes   1%
No    0%
1 votes

In fact, I want to clerk for Justice Sotomayor, and when I'm on the Supreme Court, I'll opine conservative views with more bravado than Scalia AND take Justice Sotomayor to the Ballet!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 18
Do you approve of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor?

Yes   1%
No    0%
1 votes

In fact, I want to clerk for Justice Sotomayor, and when I'm on the supreme court, I'll opine conservative views with more bravado than Scalia AND take Justice Sotomayor to the Ballet!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 17
Do you approve of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor?
Yes
1%
no
0%
0 votes
4 minutes left

in fact. i want to clerk for Justice Sotomayor, and when I'm on the supreme court, i'll opine conservative views with more bravado than Scalia, AND take Sotomayor to the Ballet!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
when every problem you've  ever faced 
is a matter of food and shelter, every 
solution is a hammer and sickle

#vladimirputin
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

it was something
that used to make me
happy but the longer
this goes on the worse
things get.

May 23
when every problem you've  ever faced 
is a matter of food and shelter, every 
solution is a hammer and sickle

#liberatetheproletariat
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
May 22
I knew it! I was going to get in trouble for that poem. Oh well, I guess I won't be freezing to death in St. Petersburg this summer!

#VladimirPutin 
#SergeiLavrov
#StateDept
#USDepartmentofState

https://mid.ru/ru/maps/us/1814243/
yeah i really feel bad
about this whole disaster
this pending disaster
this impending disaster
things are falling apart.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
That guy wanted a whole. fucking. dollar. for my student subscription. i offered the old man 99 cents, but he wouldn't budge a single American inch.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
I honestly think that the reason Rupert Murdoch bought MySpace was to stiff me out of my poems, because I stiffed him on my Wall Street Journal: Student Edition subscription fees.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
I read somewhere that it's actually possible to: request your file, or whatever, from any entity that collects your data, and I think that the process is similar to a Freedom of Information Act Request, but I never got around to doing that.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
I tried a number of different things to get my old MySpace account back, including reactivating old email addresses, but even that didn't work. and then I think I tried to find my own Myspace page using some internet archive, that didn't work either.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
What do I remember about MySpace? well. I actually left my page as Vanilla as possible, but I think that my MySpace blog was kind of epic. In fact I've tried at least a few times to track down my old MySpace Blogs.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 24
🦑fish are eaten⛵and pies are🐙
made from the guts of🛶so many
fish and🐚shells are collected🛸from
who and whatever🐌 has them they came🚀

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 24
That guy wanted a whole. fucking. dollar. for my student subscription. I offered the old man 99 cents, but he wouldn't budge a single Australian inch.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 24
I honestly think that the reason Rupert Murdoch bought MySpace was to stiff me out of my poems, because I stiffed him on my Wall Street Journal: Student Edition subscription fees.
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 24
That 250 USD Meningitis vaccine better save me 25000 inflation adjusted USD in healthcare related expenses.
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 24
What Bumble had that the other dating apps didn't was a lifetime subscription option: none of the Match Group products had one, so the only person in the Dating Industrial Complex who knows how to press the Net Present Value button works at Bumble INC.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 24
What I liked about Bumble over the other dating apps was that it had a lifetime subscription option: none of the Match Group products had that, so the only person in the Dating Industrial Complex who know how to press the NPV button works at Bumble INC.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 24
What I liked about Bumble over the other dating apps was that it had a lifetime subscription option: none of the Match Group products had that, so the only person in the Dating Industrial Complex who know how to press the NPV button works at Bumble.

#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
A few years ago I was at the bar, and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian conspiracy, and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians, insectilians, or robotilians.
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 23
A few years ago I was at the bar, and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian conspiracy, and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt, about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians, insectilians, or robotilians.
One of my favorite artifacts was a codex of invoices and annotations from Prince Antiochus I to his father Emperor Seleucus I asking for tax credits for his latest infrastructure project, as well as inquiries regarding qualified tax deductions for his public education project.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 25
When I lived at the Vatican City I amassed a decent collection of artifacts from the Selucid Dynasty; Saddam Hussein sent a diplomatic mission to have my collection repatriated; I insisted I had clear title dating to Mehmet II, and his actions would be construed as expropriation.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 25
When I think about my time at the Vatican City: I remember having amassed a pretty decent collection of artifacts from the Selucid Dynasty, but Saddam Hussein sent a diplomatic mission to have my entire collection expropriated; I insisted I had clear title dating to Mehmet II.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 25
There won't be a Real Housewives of the Vatican City because 180,000 USD in annual disposal income wouldn't be sufficient to support a spouse, a humble cleric could buy maybe two books a year, from Sotheby's, on that salary.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 25
Pope Francis also made a comment about declining birthrates, he said something along the lines of: people who don't start families are self-indulgent, and I thought; he's right, median per capita income in the Vatican City is 180,000 USD, and none of those guys have families.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 25
Pope Francis also made a comment about declining birthrates. He said something along the lines of: people who don't start families are self-indulgent, and I thought: he's right, median per capita income in the Vatican City is 180,000 USD, and none of those guys have families.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 25
Pope Francis also made a comment about declining birthrates. He said something along the lines of: people who don't start families are self-indulgent, and I thought: he's right, median per capita income in the Vatican City is like 180,000 USD, and none of those guys have kids.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

It's just that i really
cannot believe that
disaster is already
here but it's not like
i didn't see this coming.

May 25
Years ago I was at a bar and this woman was talking about some kind of reptilian🐊🦖 conspiracy and I wanted cast a reasonable doubt about how the conspiracy could just as easily be perpetuated by the octopusilians🐙🦑, insectilians🦋🐞, or robotilians🤖🖥️.
#DanishCookieUXorious


Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
Prince Antiochus I consulted the Oracle at of Apollo at Delphi, the Oracle of Tiresias at Thebes, and the Oracle of Artemis at Halicarnassus to determine if it would be suitable, and compliant to establish an:

ORACLE! OF! PROMETHEUS! 
AT! ANTIOCH!

DUN! DUN! DUN!
THEYsaidYES
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
... but the clever young prince: Prince Antiochus I, no less! would not be had! What Prince Antiochus I had found after extensive scrutinization was a subclause designating ecclesiastical constructions as infrastructure, and  so Prince Antiochus I developed a plot of his own!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
what Emperor Seleucus I and Pharaoh Ptolemy II had in mind was to undercut Prince Antiochus I by composing a warrant of attainder expressing a prohibition on subsidies for any academic edifices north of the Nile, or west of the Euphrates, stopping any Academy of Antioch.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
you see, there was something conspiratorial afoot between Emperor Seleucus I and Pharaoh Ptolemy II. Seleucus intended to create a codex collection at Seleucia, and Ptolemy: a scriptorium magnus at Alexandria, neither had any intention of being eclipsed by Prince Antiochus I.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
anyway, no one said that eating the fruit from the Tree of Knowledge would bring you anywhere nice, now did it? So, after Prince Antiochus I petitioned Pharaoh Ptolemy II for funds to subsidize the Academy of Antioch, Pharaoh Ptolemy II declined, citing a project of his own.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

i don't know what
on earth to do.
this isn't going well

May 26
anyway, no one said that eating the fruit from the Tree of Knowledge would bring you anywhere nice, now did it? So, after Prince Antiochus I petitioned Pharaoh Ptolemy II for funds to subsidize the Academy of Antioch, Pharaoh Ptolemy declined citing a project of his own.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
and if anyone brings up the Real Housewives again, or anything else for that matter, while I'm discussing this seminal revelation of my findings of the Successor States, I will totally block you!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
When I think about the Real Housewives Franchise it make me sick! There are more pressing issues in the world right now! Especially my Twitter diatribe on taxation during the Diodochi Epoch!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 26

not really ready for 
whatever it is
that is coming next
just around
the corner
two write-ups and
now a suspension.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 27
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 27
Okay, so here's a serious solution to the mass casualty incidents that happen incessantly in the United States: let's round up all the serial killers and mass murderers and other violent sociopaths, and have them fight Vladimir Putin. They did it in StarCraft.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
One of the issues I have is that I grew up in San Jose, California during the Information Age, and as a result, I have an inability to comprehend what a violent crime is. I grew up thinking the Incident at Littleton, Colorado was some kind of artifact of cinematography.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
One of the issues I have is that I grew up in San Jose, California during the Information Age, and as a result, I have an inability to comprehend what a violent crime is. I grew up thinking the Incident at Littleton, Colorado was some kind of Cinematic Production.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
One of the issues I have is that I grew up in San Jose, California during the Information Age? and as a result, I have an inability to comprehend what a violent crime is? I grew up thinking the Incident at Littleton, Colorado was some kind of Hollywood Production?
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
One of the issues I have is that I grew up in San Jose, California during the Information Age, and as a result, I have an inability to comprehend what a violent crime is. I grew up thinking the Incident at Littleton, Colorado was some kind of Hollywood Production.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
One of the issues I have is that I grew up in San Jose, California during the Information Age, and as a result, I have an inability to comprehend what a violent crime is? I grew up thinking the Incident at Littleton, Colorado was some kind of Hollywood Production.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
and that's how the:
Oracle of Prometheus at Antioch in honor of Prince Antiochus I, Summa Magnificarum 

was established.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
and that's how the:
Oracle of Prometheus at Antioch in honor of Prince Antiochus I, Summa Magnificarum was established.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
Prince Antiochus I consulted the Oracle of Apollo at Delphi, the Oracle of Tiresias at Thebes, and the Oracle of Artemis at Halicarnassus to determine if it would be suitable and compliant to establish an:
ORACLE! OF! PROMETHEUS! 
AT! ANTIOCH!

DUN! DUN! DUN!
THEY SAID YES
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 26
Prince Antiochus I consulted the Oracle at of Apollo at Delphi, the Oracle of Tiresias at Thebes, and the Oracle of Artemis at Halicarnassus to determine if it would be suitable, and compliant to establish an:

ORACLE! OF! PROMETHEUS! 
AT! ANTIOCH!
DUN! DUN! DUN!
THEYsaidYES
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 

not having the same feelings that
 you have, and for not having
 feelings like your feelings.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
when we meet in-person
and I'm not as tall of a person
as you would be satisfied with.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

i don't know
what the heck to do
or where the heck
to look for a new 
position in the
event that I get canned.

May 30
I feel like less of a person
when my vacations don't
meet your expectations of
what a vacation should be.

I feel like less of a person when
my occupation doesn't meet
your expectations of what an
occupation should be.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.

#cyberinsecurities
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person
who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
Relocation:
I'm always prepared to relocate on short notice. I keep enough money on hand to pay early lease / utility termination fees. I keep things boxed intending to mail them to any potential new residential location.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I'm aware of the difference between patents and copyrights, but there isn't a LinkedIn section that allows me to list Copyrights, or Trademarks.
I think that LinkedIn should have a generalized Registered Intellectual Property Section.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
anyway, i don't know if you have any Danish Cookie scented quilts. or anything. but um. there might be a premium attached to that. i'd buy one, but i didn't see an OnlyFans link on your linktree.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
yeah, honestly, i'd just sell everything and buy new stuff when you get to your new city.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
and think about this: since you are such an amazing craftswoman, you can probably get an Etsy premium, or creative-unique-cool-stuff premium for your stuff. and then just make new stuff when you get to your new place.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
but in some ways. the easiest thing to do: it might be easiest just to sell whatever you aren't really emotionally attached to, and buy new stuff online using your new residence as the ship-to location

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
the stuff you need now, you can take with you, and it won't cost anything above what you're already spending getting to your new place: whatever you're currently spending on gas or plane tickets.
#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
you can separate stuff you need now, from stuff you will eventually need over the following months. the now stuff you can take with you, the later stuff you can ship to yourself as needed at a later point in time.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
since you make quilts you can probably ship most things in a bag, like just wrap whatever you want to ship in a quilt, put it in a bag, then ship it to your new residence.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
Relocation:
One issue with banker boxes is that they really are kind of expensive in comparison to regular boxes. I think price vs utility can effect the way a person experiences a product.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
Relocation:
I renewed my current lease about two months ago for another year, but for some reason I'm kind of always in panic mode. I bought banker boxes but they really aren't suitable for shipping even if decent for storage.
#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
anyway, Paul, I still haven't gotten over her after all these years. If you want to, you can meet me in Kansas, and we'll fight over her, fists only, as in: paper, scissors, rock. 

Dwight D. Eisenhower Presidential Library & Museum, 200 S E 4th St, Abilene, KS 67410
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
but I guess timing is everything, as a suitor, and as a progenitor. She never said anything to me about having a Paul, ever. I was working as a fry cook, my shirts covered in grease, day after day. Only thing she ever said was, was: "I've never seen such hideous shirts!"
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
there were other opportunities at the time, in fact, Ferdinand Marcos was offering a one way ticket to the bourgeoisie, fully funded by California Boy Ronald Regan himself! I couldn't do it though: my dick was just too fucking big! So, I went to Stalingrad instead!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
but um, I didn't know she met someone. Five kids? Lucky guy. Unfortunately for me, I was fighting the Wehrmacht in Stalingrad while Pretty Boy Pablo was flirting with the ladies!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
Is being charged with a DUI the same as being credited with a DUI? I wonder if he'll ultimately be debited with a DUI? Do you have to be credited with a DUI before being Debited with a DUI? I've never had a DUI.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
A Twitter catfish posts risqué photographs and actual perverts ask to meet up, sad truth: 
I tried that approach on 
Snapchat and it didn't seem 
to achieve anything, nothing!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

it's a lot to keep
up with and honestly,
it's not something that i can
or even plan to keep
up with. ever.

May 30
No two days are alike
and every day brings new 
surprises and uncertainties.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
Residents from the complex are swimming in the pool the weather 
is hot, the water is cool.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I think that I have a tendency
to say things that I shouldn't,
and once things are digital,

they're never forgotten:
let's hope that no one has been
reading these.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

it goes around in circles
and it doesn't change
the way it moves
because it moves
but it is fixed in place.
 
May 30
I'm watching the ceiling fan
spin around and waft hot and
humid air around my room.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I think that I'm not
really interested in things
other than basics.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I'm not really a
leftist except for those times
when the ladies are.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
well, I made it almost as far as Oklahoma City, OK. I don't think I'll make it to Abilene, KS. Let's just say you win, Paul, and you can keep Nancy! As for paper📜scissors ✂️rock 🥌, see attachment below: Rock!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

it just isn't really going well
all access pass to the booty.
 
May 30
I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.

#cyberinsecurities
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

maybe you are less
happy than you were
a minute ago
and now these are
worse off than they were
not too recently.

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for using Twitter for Android
as in less than a person

who uses Twitter for iPhone but
my penis looks amazing
regardless of the hardware.
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
A Twitter catfish posts risque photographs and actual perverts
ask to meet up, sad truth: 
I tried that approach on 
Snapchat and it didn't seem 
to achieve anything, nothing!
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 

not having the same precepts that
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 
not having the same feelings that
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 
not having the same feelings that
 you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
when we meet in-person
and I'm not as tall of a person
as you would be satisfied with.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
when my vacations don't
meet your expectations of
what a vacation should be.

I feel like less of a person when
my occupation doesn't meet
your expectations of what an
occupation should be.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious

nothing helps
and nothing gets
worse and how can you
say that the roundness
is not where happiness
comes from.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30
I want thoughts as 
complex as your thoughts
feelings as deep 
as your feelings
insecurities as trivial
as your insecurities
hobbies as bougie
as your hobbies
tastes as sophisticated 
as your tastes
and problems as 
first-world as yours

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30
I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions you have, and for 

not having the same precepts
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I feel like less of a person
for not having the same 
opinions that you have, and for 
not having the same precepts
you have, and for not having
feelings like your feelings.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreuxorious

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30
Relocation:

I renewed my current lease about two months ago for another year, but for some reason I'm kind of always in panic mode. I bought banker boxes but they really aren't suitable for shipping even if decent for storage.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30
Relocation:

I'm always prepared to relocate on short notice. I keep enough money on hand to pay early lease / utility termination fees. I keep things boxed intending to mail them to any potential new residential location.

#cyberinsecurities
#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
I'm aware of the difference between patents and copyrights, but there isn't a LinkedIn section that allows me to list Copyrights, or Trademarks.
I think that LinkedIn should have a generalized Registered Intellectual Property Section.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
May 30
the stuff you need now, you can take with you, and it won't cost anything above what you're already spending getting to your new place: whatever you're currently spending on gas or plane tickets.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
you can separate stuff you need now, from stuff you will eventually need over the following months. the now stuff you can take with you, the later stuff you can ship to yourself as needed at a later point in time.

#inreUXorious
#DanishCookieUXorious
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat

May 30
since you make quilts you can probably ship most things in a bag, like just wrap whatever you want to ship in a quilt, put it in a bag, then ship it to your new residence.

...









































































anyway. i think that i've come with a solution to. like. how to respond. to any kind of. anyway. i'm not really going to worry about this for now because. i'm really not in that line of work anyway. and i have no intention of pursuing that line of work.

when i think about this. i just really don't want to suggest anything. i don't want to bring up anything that could. like. challenge the work from home (WFH) movement. i don't really want to say anything that would suggest that i'm anti-work-from-home, or anything. because.

and then, let's suppose hybrid-work environments. how do you hybridize individualized projects and team projects? what is the industry jargon for hybridized individualized collaboration work?

okay. i'll just take a position. if the team is the be all and end all of a project, then (RTO) would be optimal, wouldn't it? because you would have that additional layer of in-person collaboration that you just wouldn't get from tele-conferencing.

okay. so here. i have an idea for the. well. here's the thing. there are arguments for both sides of the return to the office (RTO) / work from home (WFH) argument.

one issue. one idea is that the (WFH) movement is a conspiracy on the part of the collaboration software industrial complex, how do we know this: cui bono! and, you could also say that, anyone who returns to the office (RTO) is, by definition, a team player, even if the person is a total introvert.

honestly, what side am i on? honestly: cui bono! i benefit most from (WFH) because i really don't like traffic. like really. why is there so much traffic. it's a car maker conspiracy! yeah. that's full disclosure.

and. yeah. that was really more thinking than i wanted to do after reading a short tweet and a few supporting tweets. 

i want to say that. i'm probably going to stay off of twitter for the time being.

i'm fucking tired.

alright. i'm feeling better. but. well. i wanted to say: who knows how long this will last. but. i don't want to think that way. i want to think. things are okay right now. and i'm sure they'll get better. i'm sure that things will continue to improve.



this is a nightmare. i think that i'll either. i think that i'll file the unemployment claim. and the disability claim.

i'm looking at my electricity bill. 55 fucking kilowatt hours! 10 dollars and 55 fucking cents. i'm home all the time now. so. i just have to figure out what the hell to do over the next few. hell. there really is no telling how long this is going to take. to find work.

if i do have to relocate. yeah. i don't really know.

i don't know if i should file an additional unemployment claim or what.

large butts. are part of the large butt industrial complex. small butts. are part of the small butt industrial complex. there are different industries. and there are different industrial complexes. that's just more or less the way that it is. that is more or less the way that it goes. there is something that i was thinking about.

sometimes designs put us at odds with one another. sometimes designs intentionally put us at odds with one another. i get that quiet spaces are needed. i remember. i found it difficult to accept a work from home position. because. me neighborhood was just too noisy at the time. it was hard to accept calls. it was hard to concentrate on work. it was hard to focus. sometimes it can be hard to focus. sometimes it can be hard to get things done when it's noisy. does it really enhance your concentration. well. who know. i do. i really do need to make a living. and. right now. i just don't think that i can do that. 

i think. it's a conspiracy on the part of the sell things industrial complex. i think that it's part of the industrial goods industrial complex. you have a problem. and we have the solution. i do not want all old things. i want all new things. i don't want a single new thing. i want all old things. i do not want anything other than high prices antiques that are sold by the most respectable antique dealers. and that's the only thing that i want. antiques. antiques. respectable. respectable. 

i remember. there were a few times when i worked in an office setting. and. it was noisy. and. in those cases. i was the noisy one.

i'm trying to compile my posts for Letters from Sanford Street. and this is the kind of thing that will take some time. what else was i trying to do? well. there was something that i needed to work on, but for some reason. it seems to have slipped my mind. i don't know how to deal with this kind of thing. it's possible that. he might just be trying to get an interview done or something. i have no idea. but he just left. and now this is easier.

i get. i understand that we don't always have our own private work spaces. we don't all have our own offices. and. these quite spaces are really needed. i get that.

part of the reason that i do conduct business. i do work from home when as far as work pertains to Chestnut + Hazel. is because i really don't have money for an office. not right now. any maybe the work from home thing does come with opportunities that can change things.

i think about the people who started businesses in their dorm room. or people who started businesses in their garage.

it doesn't take long for quiet spaces to become loud spaces. quiet spaces. everyone needs them. i think this guy is from the walking advertisement industrial complex.

i have to look for something. i have to look for a position. not because i need the money, but because it's relevant to what i want to accomplish. but the only think i really want to accomplish is to have more money.

i liquidated nearly everything in my robinhood account. i don't think that i would have ever done that. really. i thought that i would just be able to hold down a job. but i actually can't. i can't hold down a job. everyone picks on me. and this is true no matter where i work.

i have to think about what my next moves are. because this is a nightmare. i don't know if i'll be able to find work. or what. or what kind of work or employment i should be looking for.

alright. well I guess that's over. what a total nightmare. but right now. i really don't know what to do for work.

it wasn't too far back that i really felt that things were getting better. but they continue to be a disaster. what the hell do i need to do.

These last few days have been extremely challenging for me. Everything feels like a kind of sensation overload, and I have to look for work, again.

make a reference to the original. make an attribution. and make a contribution by making a slight change.

think about the original sin of mankind. make a slight change. then make a contribution of your own. you'll have fun. but this assertion is not guaranteed.

have you ever tasted how so many things taste similar to one another. this one iPhone had a very similar taste to this generic smart phone i was licking earlier. can you taste the difference? i couldn't! i'm embarrassed and i feel like i have no taste.

maybe we can collect all of the artifacts that the people all over the universe are collecting. if others collect them. then we too should collect them. in many ways. this is a good thing. in other ways. it's something other than a good thing.

there is an ongoing twitter conflict between the freudians and the hubbardians. this sort of thing will never end. is it all in your mind. or is it all in your head. this debate will never end.

orange juice is made from squeezed oranges. lemonade is made from squeeze lemons.

there really is no such thing as a free lunch. but these tweet is free. 

eat my tweet.

i met a man from an antique land who said. that upon his ball sack. these cock rings appear.

i told him it's wrong to use a cock ring for his ball sack. it's better to use a ball ring.

what color are your balls. well. you wouldn't know unless you opened your scrotum and checked.

and don't think you can trick me by painting your balls. or dying them red. neptune is an even bluer big ball with a ball ring.

sputnik was the first man made ball of steel to circle an even greener. and even bluer ball. the earth is a big blue ball.

think of the white ball. and think of the red ball. tonight. we dine at the pub. tonight we play pool.

balls. inside of an even bigger. translucent ball. and your balls are numbered. 

because we're playing bingo. what did you think we were doing.
balls. inside of a netted sack.
i think. therefore. that these are onions.

and on that pedestal. 
massive stone balls appear.

and on those pedestals. these massive stone balls appear.
do they have names. I don't think they do.
i think. i don't really know. spam. maybe. ham. maybe. green apples and spam. what do you think.

large balls. stone balls. concrete spheres mounted on cubes outside of city hall.
everything is a headache. and everything else is a nightmare.
but everything is kind of uncertain. onions and maybe some kind of sauce.
pencils and pens and notebooks. a laptop a tablet. maybe a new phone.

pencils and pens and notebooks. a laptop a tablet. maybe a new phone.
well. i guess she's off the market now. and i guess its no skin off my cock.
she said something about the beach and a fish net g string and a large otter. and sand. it gets everywhere. even a woman's crotch. and even a one as unbelievably tight as it gets.

well. um. if you want to know the truth. i'm actually part of the team investigating you know who. and. it. um. it honestly felt like she had sand in her crotch. fine grain sand. gently abrasive. good. but still. she had a sand crotch.


There is an issue of. i need to have enough student loan money to cover living expenses. i really don't want to resort to taking out private fucking student loans.

this is a nightmare. i think that i'll either. i think that i'll file the unemployment claim. and the disability claim.

i'm looking at my electricity bill. 55 fucking kilowatt hours! 10 dollars and 55 fucking cents. i'm home all the time now. so. i just have to figure out what the hell to do over the next few. hell. there really is no telling how long this is going to take. to find work.

if i do have to relocate. yeah. i don't really know.

i don't know if i should file an additional unemployment claim or what.

large butts. are part of the large butt industrial complex. small butts. are part of the small butt industrial complex. there are different industries. and there are different industrial complexes. that's just more or less the way that it is. that is more or less the way that it goes. there is something that i was thinking about.

sometimes designs put us at odds with one another. sometimes designs intentionally put us at odds with one another. i get that quiet spaces are needed. i remember. i found it difficult to accept a work from home position. because. me neighborhood was just too noisy at the time. it was hard to accept calls. it was hard to concentrate on work. it was hard to focus. sometimes it can be hard to focus. sometimes it can be hard to get things done when it's noisy. does it really enhance your concentration. well. who know. i do. i really do need to make a living. and. right now. i just don't think that i can do that. 

i think. it's a conspiracy on the part of the sell things industrial complex. i think that it's part of the industrial goods industrial complex. you have a problem. and we have the solution. i do not want all old things. i want all new things. i don't want a single new thing. i want all old things. i do not want anything other than high prices antiques that are sold by the most respectable antique dealers. and that's the only thing that i want. antiques. antiques. respectable. respectable. 

i remember. there were a few times when i worked in an office setting. and. it was noisy. and. in those cases. i was the noisy one.

i'm trying to compile my posts for Letters from Sanford Street. and this is the kind of thing that will take some time. what else was i trying to do? well. there was something that i needed to work on, but for some reason. it seems to have slipped my mind. i don't know how to deal with this kind of thing. it's possible that. he might just be trying to get an interview done or something. i have no idea. but he just left. and now this is easier.

i get. i understand that we don't always have our own private work spaces. we don't all have our own offices. and. these quite spaces are really needed. i get that.

part of the reason that i do conduct business. i do work from home when as far as work pertains to Chestnut + Hazel. is because i really don't have money for an office. not right now. any maybe the work from home thing does come with opportunities that can change things.

i think about the people who started businesses in their dorm room. or people who started businesses in their garage.

it doesn't take long for quiet spaces to become loud spaces. quiet spaces. everyone needs them. i think this guy is from the walking advertisement industrial complex.

i have to look for something. i have to look for a position. not because i need the money, but because it's relevant to what i want to accomplish. but the only think i really want to accomplish is to have more money.

i liquidated nearly everything in my robinhood account. i don't think that i would have ever done that. really. i thought that i would just be able to hold down a job. but i actually can't. i can't hold down a job. everyone picks on me. and this is true no matter where i work.

i have to think about what my next moves are. because this is a nightmare. i don't know if i'll be able to find work. or what. or what kind of work or employment i should be looking for.

alright. well I guess that's over. what a total nightmare. but right now. i really don't know what to do for work.

it wasn't too far back that i really felt that things were getting better. but they continue to be a disaster. what the hell do i need to do.


These last few days have been extremely challenging for me. Everything feels like a kind of sensation overload, and I have to look for work, again.


Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
9m
make a reference to the original. make an attribution. and make a contribution by making a slight change.

think about the original sin of mankind. make a slight change. then make a contribution of your own. you'll have fun. but this assertion is not guaranteed.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
12m
have you ever tasted how so many things taste similar to one another. this one iPhone had a very similar taste to this generic smart phone i was licking earlier. can you taste the difference? i couldn't! i'm embarrassed and i feel like i have no taste.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
14m
maybe we can collect all of the artifacts that the people all over the universe are collecting. if others collect them. then we too should collect them. in many ways. this is a good thing. in other ways. it's something other than a good thing.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
15m
there is an ongoing twitter conflict between the freudians and the hubbardians. this sort of thing will never end. is it all in your mind. or is it all in your head. this debate will never end.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
16m
orange juice is made from squeezed oranges. lemonade is made from squeeze lemons.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
there really is no such thing as a free lunch. but these tweet is free. 

eat my tweet.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
i met a man from an antique land who said. that upon his ball sack. these cock rings appear.

i told him it's wrong to use a cock ring for his ball sack. it's better to use a ball ring.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
what color are your balls. well. you wouldn't know unless you opened your scrotum and checked.

and don't think you can trick me by painting your balls. or dying them red. neptune is an even bluer big ball with a ball ring.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
sputnik was the first man made ball of steel to circle an even greener. and even bluer ball. the earth is a big blue ball.

think of the white ball. and think of the red ball. tonight. we dine at the pub. tonight we play pool.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
balls. inside of an even bigger. translucent ball. and your balls are numbered. 

because we're playing bingo. what did you think we were doing.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
balls. inside of a netted sack.

i think. therefore. that these are onions.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
and on that pedestal. massive stone balls appear.

and on those pedestals. these massive stone balls appear.

do they have names. I don't think they do.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
i think. i dont really know. spam. maybe. ham. maybe. green apples and spam. what do you think.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
large balls. stone balls. concrete spheres mounted on cubes outside of city hall.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
everything is a headache. and everything else is a nightmare.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
but everything is kind of uncertain. onions and maybe some kind of sauce.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
pencils and pens and notebooks. a laptop a tablet. maybe a new phone.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
pencils and pens and notebooks. a laptop a tablet. maybe a new phone.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
... well. i guess she's off the market now. and i guess its no skin off my cock.

#megamatzoballs
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
... she said something about the beach and a fish net g string and a large otter. and sand. it gets everywhere. even a woman's crotch. and even a one as unbelievably tight as it gets.

#megamatzoballs
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
well. um. if you want to know the truth. im actually part of the team investigating you know who. and. it. um. it honestly felt like she had sand in her crotch. fine grain sand. gently abrasive. good. but still. she had a sand crotch.

#megamatzoballs

...

Link, Bookmark, and Favorites Dump

...

https://www.lendup.com/#loans

https://www.intownsuites.com/extended-stay-locations/texas/arlington/

https://psiloveyou.xyz/5-qualities-women-find-to-be-the-most-attractive-in-men-5ca3b1ae24bb

https://www.cnbc.com/2020/06/17/communication-and-etiquette-tips-for-the-virtual-workplace.html?__source=Facebook%7CINT&fbclid=IwAR1KXeETBhwVM7W7tzxUzv16ixtpe0h-S9eYp9Yydy-vy0ZcmzXiKFngP1M

https://www.marketwatch.com/story/the-extra-600-americans-get-in-weekly-unemployment-benefits-ends-next-month-heres-what-lawmakers-are-proposing-to-replace-it-2020-06-09

https://www.dol.gov/coronavirus/unemployment-insurance

https://www.dol.gov/coronavirus/unemployment-insurance



This message has been deleted. Restore message

Hi Kenneth,



Thank you for contacting Viator. I wanted to follow up with you after our chat conversation since it seems that we were disconnected.



Before we proceed on deleting your account, may we please know the reason for your request?



If you have any other questions regarding your inquiry please contact us through the Viator Management Center (supplier.viator.com). Once you log in, click the Help icon in the bottom corner. When available, click Chat to be connected with Supplier Support.





Best regards,

Adeline

Viator Support



ref:_00Dd0gJSL._5006T21dfwO:ref



Kenneth Larot Yamat <ilovekristin@chestnutandhazel.com>

Sun, Aug 28, 4:09 AM

to Suppliers



This message has been deleted. Restore message

um. personal reasons maybe? just delete the account whenever you get the chance.





Suppliers

Tue, Aug 30, 2:32 AM

to ilovekristin@chestnutandhazel.com



This message has been deleted. Restore message

Hi Kenneth,



Thank you for your response.



We have now deactivated your Viator account as per your request.



If you wish to reactivate your account, please respond to this email and we will update accordingly.



Best regards,

Vivian







Welcome to Viator!

Trash



Viator <account@t1.viator.com>

Sun, Aug 28, 12:14 AM

to rewrtertwre



This message has been deleted. Restore message

‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ 

Viator

Ready to reach millions of travelers? Start here.



Congratulations! You’re now part of a community that connects tours and activities businesses with travelers across the world.

With access to our best-in-class Management Center, you have everything you need to manage products, bookings, and more, all in one place.

Ready to get started? Here’s what you can do:

•	Create and edit products

•	Contact travelers

•	Manage bookings

•	View booking reports

•	Update availability

•	Manage and respond to reviews

•	Access banking and payment information

Get started

If you need help, we're here for you. Visit our:

•		Help Center for answers to common questions and a Getting Started Guide

•		Operator Resource Center for ways to optimize your business and experiences

•		Live Chat to ask a representative for help with anything

Viator

Management Center	|	Privacy Policy	|	Help Center

© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.

Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.

Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494





Welcome to Viator!

Trash



Viator <account@t1.viator.com>

Sun, Aug 28, 12:14 AM

to rewrtertwre



This message has been deleted. Restore message

‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ 

Viator

Ready to reach millions of travelers? Start here.



Congratulations! You’re now part of a community that connects tours and activities businesses with travelers across the world.

With access to our best-in-class Management Center, you have everything you need to manage products, bookings, and more, all in one place.

Ready to get started? Here’s what you can do:

•	Create and edit products

•	Contact travelers

•	Manage bookings

•	View booking reports

•	Update availability

•	Manage and respond to reviews

•	Access banking and payment information

Get started

If you need help, we're here for you. Visit our:

•		Help Center for answers to common questions and a Getting Started Guide

•		Operator Resource Center for ways to optimize your business and experiences

•		Live Chat to ask a representative for help with anything

Viator

Management Center	|	Privacy Policy	|	Help Center

© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.

Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.

Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494











3 of 5

A new user was added to your account

Trash



Viator <account@t1.viator.com>

Sun, Aug 28, 12:14 AM

to ilovekristin



This message has been deleted. Restore message

Didn’t update your information? Get in touch ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ 

Viator

Hi Kenneth,

A new user with access to your payout settings was added to your Supplier account *** ***. To protect your account, they will not be able to edit your payout settings until August 29 at 12:14 AM.

If neither you nor one of your employees made this change, contact supplier support immediately. For any other questions or concerns, please visit our help center.

Best regards,

The Viator team

Viator

Management Center	|	Privacy Policy	|	Help Center

© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.

Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.

Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494



Your two-factor authentication code request

Trash



Viator <account@t1.viator.com>

Sun, Aug 28, 12:12 AM

to ilovekristin



This message has been deleted. Restore message

Your code expires in 20 minutes ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ 

Viator

Hi Kenneth,

You requested a two-factor authentication code for Kenneth Larot Yamat, Supplier ID: *** ***

Here's your unique code: *** ***

Your code expires in 20 minutes.

 

Green check icon		This two-step authentication adds an extra layer of protection when you're using Viator Systems.

 

Contact supplier support immediately if you did not request this code.

For any other issues, please visit our help center.

Best Regards,

The Viator team

Viator

Management Center	|	Privacy Policy	|	Help Center

© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.

Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.

Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494





Hi Kenneth,

You requested a two-factor authentication code for Kenneth Larot Yamat, Supplier ID: ******.

Here's your unique code: ******

Your code expires in 20 minutes.





This two-step authentication adds an extra layer of protection when you're using Viator Systems.





Contact supplier support immediately if you did not request this code.

For any other issues, please visit our help center.

Best Regards,

The Viator team













Management Center | Privacy Policy | Help Center



© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.

Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.

Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494













...







I have no fucking idea where to begin. This place is a real nightmare.





...















Chestnut and Hazel



Mon, Aug 22, 9:00 PM











to kennethlarotyamat, me, kenneth.larot.yamat









This message has been deleted. Restore message















---------- Forwarded message ---------

From: Viator <email@t1.viator.com>

Date: Wed, Aug 10, 2022 at 7:37 PM

Subject: Security Update: your account now has increased protection

To: <prospectus.media.group@gmail.com>













Multi-factor authentication is enabled ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌









Dear Operator,

In response to a growing number of global cybersecurity threats, Viator is taking additional steps to protect your account.



The next time you login to your account you will notice two new features:





• reCAPTCHA security module that helps to protect Viator accounts against robot hacking attempts.



• Multi-factor authentication that sends a code to your email address that you logged in with. Multi-factor authentication is an extra layer of protection used to ensure the security of your account.





We take security measures very seriously and appreciate your partnership in ensuring online account protection. If you have any questions please contact Viator's support team using the onsite chat feature.





Login to your account

















Management Center | Privacy Policy | Help Center



© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.

Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.

Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494







Trash





5 of 5

Fwd: Security Update: your account now has increased protection

Trash



Chestnut and Hazel

Mon, Aug 22, 9:00 PM

to kennethlarotyamat, me, kenneth.larot.yamat



This message has been deleted. Restore message





---------- Forwarded message ---------

From: Viator <email@t1.viator.com>

Date: Wed, Aug 10, 2022 at 7:37 PM

Subject: Security Update: your account now has increased protection

To: <prospectus.media.group@gmail.com>





Multi-factor authentication is enabled ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ 

Viator

Dear Operator,





5 of 5

Fwd: Security Update: your account now has increased protection

Trash



Chestnut and Hazel

Mon, Aug 22, 9:00 PM

to kennethlarotyamat, me, kenneth.larot.yamat



This message has been deleted. Restore message





---------- Forwarded message ---------

From: Viator <email@t1.viator.com>

Date: Wed, Aug 10, 2022 at 7:37 PM

Subject: Security Update: your account now has increased protection

To: <prospectus.media.group@gmail.com>





Multi-factor authentication is enabled ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ 

Viator

Dear Operator,

In response to a growing number of global cybersecurity threats, Viator is taking additional steps to protect your account.



The next time you login to your account you will notice two new features:

•		reCAPTCHA security module that helps to protect Viator accounts against robot hacking attempts.

 

•		Multi-factor authentication that sends a code to your email address that you logged in with. Multi-factor authentication is an extra layer of protection used to ensure the security of your account.

We take security measures very seriously and appreciate your partnership in ensuring online account protection. If you have any questions please contact Viator's support team using the onsite chat feature.

Login to your account

Viator

Management Center	|	Privacy Policy	|	Help Center

© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.

Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.

Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494



Mail Delivery Subsystem

Mon, Aug 22, 9:00 PM

to prospectus.media.group



This message has been deleted. Restore message

Error Icon

Address not found

Your message wasn't delivered to kennethlarotyamat@chestnutandhazel.com because the address couldn't be found, or is unable to receive mail.

LEARN MORE

The response from the remote server was:

550 5.1.1 The email account that you tried to reach does not exist. Please try double-checking the recipient's email address for typos or unnecessary spaces. Learn more at https://support.google.com/mail/?p=NoSuchUser q125-20020acad983000000b0034483a5ef2dsi679228oig.1 - gsmtp









---------- Forwarded message ----------

From: Chestnut and Hazel <prospectus.media.group@gmail.com>

To: kennethlarotyamat@chestnutandhazel.com, Kenneth Larot Yamat <kenneth.larot.yamat@gmail.com>, kenneth.larot.yamat@chestnutandhazel.com

Cc: 

Bcc: 

Date: Mon, 22 Aug 2022 21:00:01 -0500

Subject: Fwd: Security Update: your account now has increased protection

----- Message truncated -----In response to a growing number of global cybersecurity threats, Viator is taking additional steps to protect your account.







The next time you login to your account you will notice two new features:

•		reCAPTCHA security module that helps to protect Viator accounts against robot hacking attempts.

 

•		Multi-factor authentication that sends a code to your email address that you logged in with. Multi-factor authentication is an extra layer of protection used to ensure the security of your account.

We take security measures very seriously and appreciate your partnership in ensuring online account protection. If you have any questions please contact Viator's support team using the onsite chat feature.

Login to your account

Viator

Management Center	|	Privacy Policy	|	Help Center

© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.

Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.

Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494



Mail Delivery Subsystem

Mon, Aug 22, 9:00 PM

to prospectus.media.group



This message has been deleted. Restore message

Error Icon

Address not found

Your message wasn't delivered to kennethlarotyamat@chestnutandhazel.com because the address couldn't be found, or is unable to receive mail.

LEARN MORE

The response from the remote server was:

550 5.1.1 The email account that you tried to reach does not exist. Please try double-checking the recipient's email address for typos or unnecessary spaces. Learn more at https://support.google.com/mail/?p=NoSuchUser q125-20020acad983000000b0034483a5ef2dsi679228oig.1 - gsmtp









---------- Forwarded message ----------

From: Chestnut and Hazel <prospectus.media.group@gmail.com>

To: kennethlarotyamat@chestnutandhazel.com, Kenneth Larot Yamat <kenneth.larot.yamat@gmail.com>, kenneth.larot.yamat@chestnutandhazel.com

Cc: 

Bcc: 

Date: Mon, 22 Aug 2022 21:00:01 -0500

Subject: Fwd: Security Update: your account now has increased protection

----- Message truncated -----





Your two-factor authentication code request

















Viator <account@t1.viator.com>



Sun, Aug 28, 12:12 AM











to ilovekristin









This message has been deleted. Restore message

















Your code expires in 20 minutes ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌











If you have any other questions regarding your inquiry please contact us through the Viator Management Center (supplier.viator.com). Once you log in, click the Help icon in the bottom corner. When available, click Chat to be connected with Supplier Support.





Best regards,

Adeline

Viator Support



ref:_00Dd0gJSL._5006T21dfwO:ref



Kenneth Larot Yamat <ilovekristin@chestnutandhazel.com>

Sun, Aug 28, 4:09 AM

to Suppliers



This message has been deleted. Restore message

um. personal reasons maybe? just delete the account whenever you get the chance.





Suppliers

Tue, Aug 30, 2:32 AM

to ilovekristin@chestnutandhazel.com



This message has been deleted. Restore message

Hi Kenneth,



Thank you for your response.



We have now deactivated your Viator account as per your request.



If you wish to reactivate your account, please respond to this email and we will update accordingly.



Best regards,

Vivian







Welcome to Viator!

Trash



Viator <account@t1.viator.com>

Sun, Aug 28, 12:14 AM

to rewrtertwre



This message has been deleted. Restore message

‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ 

Viator

Ready to reach millions of travelers? Start here.



Congratulations! You’re now part of a community that connects tours and activities businesses with travelers across the world.

With access to our best-in-class Management Center, you have everything you need to manage products, bookings, and more, all in one place.

Ready to get started? Here’s what you can do:

•	Create and edit products

•	Contact travelers

•	Manage bookings

•	View booking reports

•	Update availability

•	Manage and respond to reviews

•	Access banking and payment information

Get started

If you need help, we're here for you. Visit our:

•		Help Center for answers to common questions and a Getting Started Guide

•		Operator Resource Center for ways to optimize your business and experiences

•		Live Chat to ask a representative for help with anything

Viator

Management Center	|	Privacy Policy	|	Help Center

© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.

Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.

Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494





Welcome to Viator!

Trash



Viator <account@t1.viator.com>

Sun, Aug 28, 12:14 AM

to rewrtertwre



This message has been deleted. Restore message

‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ 

Viator

Ready to reach millions of travelers? Start here.



Congratulations! You’re now part of a community that connects tours and activities businesses with travelers across the world.

With access to our best-in-class Management Center, you have everything you need to manage products, bookings, and more, all in one place.

Ready to get started? Here’s what you can do:

•	Create and edit products

•	Contact travelers

•	Manage bookings

•	View booking reports

•	Update availability

•	Manage and respond to reviews

•	Access banking and payment information

Get started

If you need help, we're here for you. Visit our:

•		Help Center for answers to common questions and a Getting Started Guide

•		Operator Resource Center for ways to optimize your business and experiences

•		Live Chat to ask a representative for help with anything

Viator

Management Center	|	Privacy Policy	|	Help Center

© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.

Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.

Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494











3 of 5

A new user was added to your account

Trash



Viator <account@t1.viator.com>

Sun, Aug 28, 12:14 AM

to ilovekristin



This message has been deleted. Restore message

Didn’t update your information? Get in touch ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ 

Viator

Hi Kenneth,

A new user with access to your payout settings was added to your Supplier account *** ***. To protect your account, they will not be able to edit your payout settings until August 29 at 12:14 AM.

If neither you nor one of your employees made this change, contact supplier support immediately. For any other questions or concerns, please visit our help center.

Best regards,

The Viator team

Viator

Management Center	|	Privacy Policy	|	Help Center

© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.

Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.

Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494



Your two-factor authentication code request

Trash



Viator <account@t1.viator.com>

Sun, Aug 28, 12:12 AM

to ilovekristin



This message has been deleted. Restore message

Your code expires in 20 minutes ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ 

Viator

Hi Kenneth,

You requested a two-factor authentication code for Kenneth Larot Yamat, Supplier ID: *** ***

Here's your unique code: *** ***

Your code expires in 20 minutes.

 

Green check icon		This two-step authentication adds an extra layer of protection when you're using Viator Systems.

 

Contact supplier support immediately if you did not request this code.

For any other issues, please visit our help center.

Best Regards,

The Viator team

Viator

Management Center	|	Privacy Policy	|	Help Center

© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.

Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.

Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494





Hi Kenneth,

You requested a two-factor authentication code for Kenneth Larot Yamat, Supplier ID: ******.

Here's your unique code: ******

Your code expires in 20 minutes.





This two-step authentication adds an extra layer of protection when you're using Viator Systems.





Contact supplier support immediately if you did not request this code.

For any other issues, please visit our help center.

Best Regards,

The Viator team













Management Center | Privacy Policy | Help Center



© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.

Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.

Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494













...







I have no fucking idea where to begin. This place is a real nightmare.





...















Chestnut and Hazel



Mon, Aug 22, 9:00 PM











to kennethlarotyamat, me, kenneth.larot.yamat









This message has been deleted. Restore message















---------- Forwarded message ---------

From: Viator <email@t1.viator.com>

Date: Wed, Aug 10, 2022 at 7:37 PM

Subject: Security Update: your account now has increased protection

To: <prospectus.media.group@gmail.com>













Multi-factor authentication is enabled ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌









Dear Operator,

In response to a growing number of global cybersecurity threats, Viator is taking additional steps to protect your account.



The next time you login to your account you will notice two new features:





• reCAPTCHA security module that helps to protect Viator accounts against robot hacking attempts.



• Multi-factor authentication that sends a code to your email address that you logged in with. Multi-factor authentication is an extra layer of protection used to ensure the security of your account.





We take security measures very seriously and appreciate your partnership in ensuring online account protection. If you have any questions please contact Viator's support team using the onsite chat feature.





Login to your account

















Management Center | Privacy Policy | Help Center



© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.

Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.

Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494







Trash





5 of 5

Fwd: Security Update: your account now has increased protection

Trash



Chestnut and Hazel

Mon, Aug 22, 9:00 PM

to kennethlarotyamat, me, kenneth.larot.yamat



This message has been deleted. Restore message





---------- Forwarded message ---------

From: Viator <email@t1.viator.com>

Date: Wed, Aug 10, 2022 at 7:37 PM

Subject: Security Update: your account now has increased protection

To: <prospectus.media.group@gmail.com>





Multi-factor authentication is enabled ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ 

Viator

Dear Operator,





5 of 5

Fwd: Security Update: your account now has increased protection

Trash



Chestnut and Hazel

Mon, Aug 22, 9:00 PM

to kennethlarotyamat, me, kenneth.larot.yamat



This message has been deleted. Restore message





---------- Forwarded message ---------

From: Viator <email@t1.viator.com>

Date: Wed, Aug 10, 2022 at 7:37 PM

Subject: Security Update: your account now has increased protection

To: <prospectus.media.group@gmail.com>





Multi-factor authentication is enabled ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ 

Viator

Dear Operator,

In response to a growing number of global cybersecurity threats, Viator is taking additional steps to protect your account.



The next time you login to your account you will notice two new features:

•		reCAPTCHA security module that helps to protect Viator accounts against robot hacking attempts.

 

•		Multi-factor authentication that sends a code to your email address that you logged in with. Multi-factor authentication is an extra layer of protection used to ensure the security of your account.

We take security measures very seriously and appreciate your partnership in ensuring online account protection. If you have any questions please contact Viator's support team using the onsite chat feature.

Login to your account

Viator

Management Center	|	Privacy Policy	|	Help Center

© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.

Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.

Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494



Mail Delivery Subsystem

Mon, Aug 22, 9:00 PM

to prospectus.media.group



This message has been deleted. Restore message

Error Icon

Address not found

Your message wasn't delivered to kennethlarotyamat@chestnutandhazel.com because the address couldn't be found, or is unable to receive mail.

LEARN MORE

The response from the remote server was:

550 5.1.1 The email account that you tried to reach does not exist. Please try double-checking the recipient's email address for typos or unnecessary spaces. Learn more at https://support.google.com/mail/?p=NoSuchUser q125-20020acad983000000b0034483a5ef2dsi679228oig.1 - gsmtp









---------- Forwarded message ----------

From: Chestnut and Hazel <prospectus.media.group@gmail.com>

To: kennethlarotyamat@chestnutandhazel.com, Kenneth Larot Yamat <kenneth.larot.yamat@gmail.com>, kenneth.larot.yamat@chestnutandhazel.com

Cc: 

Bcc: 

Date: Mon, 22 Aug 2022 21:00:01 -0500

Subject: Fwd: Security Update: your account now has increased protection

----- Message truncated -----In response to a growing number of global cybersecurity threats, Viator is taking additional steps to protect your account.







The next time you login to your account you will notice two new features:

•		reCAPTCHA security module that helps to protect Viator accounts against robot hacking attempts.

 

•		Multi-factor authentication that sends a code to your email address that you logged in with. Multi-factor authentication is an extra layer of protection used to ensure the security of your account.

We take security measures very seriously and appreciate your partnership in ensuring online account protection. If you have any questions please contact Viator's support team using the onsite chat feature.

Login to your account

Viator

Management Center	|	Privacy Policy	|	Help Center

© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.

Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.

Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494



Mail Delivery Subsystem

Mon, Aug 22, 9:00 PM

to prospectus.media.group



This message has been deleted. Restore message

Error Icon

Address not found

Your message wasn't delivered to kennethlarotyamat@chestnutandhazel.com because the address couldn't be found, or is unable to receive mail.

LEARN MORE

The response from the remote server was:

550 5.1.1 The email account that you tried to reach does not exist. Please try double-checking the recipient's email address for typos or unnecessary spaces. Learn more at https://support.google.com/mail/?p=NoSuchUser q125-20020acad983000000b0034483a5ef2dsi679228oig.1 - gsmtp









---------- Forwarded message ----------

From: Chestnut and Hazel <prospectus.media.group@gmail.com>

To: kennethlarotyamat@chestnutandhazel.com, Kenneth Larot Yamat <kenneth.larot.yamat@gmail.com>, kenneth.larot.yamat@chestnutandhazel.com

Cc: 

Bcc: 

Date: Mon, 22 Aug 2022 21:00:01 -0500

Subject: Fwd: Security Update: your account now has increased protection

----- Message truncated -----





Your two-factor authentication code request

















Viator <account@t1.viator.com>



Sun, Aug 28, 12:12 AM











to ilovekristin









This message has been deleted. Restore message

















Your code expires in 20 minutes ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌









There is an issue of. i need to have enough student loan money to cover living expenses. i really don't want to resort to taking out private fucking student loans.

* * *

this is a nightmare. i think that i'll either. i think that i'll file the unemployment claim. and the disability claim.

i'm looking at my electricity bill. 55 fucking kilowatt hours! 10 dollars and 55 fucking cents. i'm home all the time now. so. i just have to figure out what the hell to do over the next few. hell. there really is no telling how long this is going to take. to find work.

if i do have to relocate. yeah. i don't really know.

* * *

i don't know if i should file an additional unemployment claim or what.

* * *

large butts. are part of the large butt industrial complex. small butts. are part of the small butt industrial complex. there are different industries. and there are different industrial complexes. that's just more or less the way that it is. that is more or less the way that it goes. there is something that i was thinking about.

* * *

sometimes designs put us at odds with one another. sometimes designs intentionally put us at odds with one another. i get that quiet spaces are needed. i remember. i found it difficult to accept a work from home position. because. me neighborhood was just too noisy at the time. it was hard to accept calls. it was hard to concentrate on work. it was hard to focus. sometimes it can be hard to focus. sometimes it can be hard to get things done when it's noisy. does it really enhance your concentration. well. who know. i do. i really do need to make a living. and. right now. i just don't think that i can do that. 

i think. it's a conspiracy on the part of the sell things industrial complex. i think that it's part of the industrial goods industrial complex. you have a problem. and we have the solution. i do not want all old things. i want all new things. i don't want a single new thing. i want all old things. i do not want anything other than high prices antiques that are sold by the most respectable antique dealers. and that's the only thing that i want. antiques. antiques. respectable. respectable. 

i remember. there were a few times when i worked in an office setting. and. it was noisy. and. in those cases. i was the noisy one.

* * *

i'm trying to compile my posts for Letters from Sanford Street. and this is the kind of thing that will take some time. what else was i trying to do? well. there was something that i needed to work on, but for some reason. it seems to have slipped my mind. i don't know how to deal with this kind of thing. it's possible that. he might just be trying to get an interview done or something. i have no idea. but he just left. and now this is easier.

i get. i understand that we don't always have our own private work spaces. we don't all have our own offices. and. these quite spaces are really needed. i get that.

part of the reason that i do conduct business. i do work from home when as far as work pertains to Chestnut + Hazel. is because i really don't have money for an office. not right now. any maybe the work from home thing does come with opportunities that can change things.

i think about the people who started businesses in their dorm room. or people who started businesses in their garage.

* * *

it doesn't take long for quiet spaces to become loud spaces. quiet spaces. everyone needs them. i think this guy is from the walking advertisement industrial complex.

* * *

i have to look for something. i have to look for a position. not because i need the money, but because it's relevant to what i want to accomplish. but the only think i really want to accomplish is to have more money.

* * *

i liquidated nearly everything in my robinhood account. i don't think that i would have ever done that. really. i thought that i would just be able to hold down a job. but i actually can't. i can't hold down a job. everyone picks on me. and this is true no matter where i work.

i have to think about what my next moves are. because this is a nightmare. i don't know if i'll be able to find work. or what. or what kind of work or employment i should be looking for.

* * *

alright. well I guess that's over. what a total nightmare. but right now. i really don't know what to do for work.

* * *

it wasn't too far back that i really felt that things were getting better. but they continue to be a disaster. what the hell do i need to do.

* * *

These last few days have been extremely challenging for me. Everything feels like a kind of sensation overload, and I have to look for work, again.

* * *


Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
9m
make a reference to the original. make an attribution. and make a contribution by making a slight change.

think about the original sin of mankind. make a slight change. then make a contribution of your own. you'll have fun. but this assertion is not guaranteed.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
12m
have you ever tasted how so many things taste similar to one another. this one iPhone had a very similar taste to this generic smart phone i was licking earlier. can you taste the difference? i couldn't! i'm embarrassed and i feel like i have no taste.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
14m
maybe we can collect all of the artifacts that the people all over the universe are collecting. if others collect them. then we too should collect them. in many ways. this is a good thing. in other ways. it's something other than a good thing.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
15m
there is an ongoing twitter conflict between the freudians and the hubbardians. this sort of thing will never end. is it all in your mind. or is it all in your head. this debate will never end.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
16m
orange juice is made from squeezed oranges. lemonade is made from squeeze lemons.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
there really is no such thing as a free lunch. but these tweet is free. 

eat my tweet.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
i met a man from an antique land who said. that upon his ball sack. these cock rings appear.

i told him it's wrong to use a cock ring for his ball sack. it's better to use a ball ring.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
what color are your balls. well. you wouldn't know unless you opened your scrotum and checked.

and don't think you can trick me by painting your balls. or dying them red. neptune is an even bluer big ball with a ball ring.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
sputnik was the first man made ball of steel to circle an even greener. and even bluer ball. the earth is a big blue ball.

think of the white ball. and think of the red ball. tonight. we dine at the pub. tonight we play pool.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
balls. inside of an even bigger. translucent ball. and your balls are numbered. 

because we're playing bingo. what did you think we were doing.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
balls. inside of a netted sack.

i think. therefore. that these are onions.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
and on that pedestal. massive stone balls appear.

and on those pedestals. these massive stone balls appear.

do they have names. I don't think they do.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
i think. i dont really know. spam. maybe. ham. maybe. green apples and spam. what do you think.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
large balls. stone balls. concrete spheres mounted on cubes outside of city hall.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
everything is a headache. and everything else is a nightmare.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
but everything is kind of uncertain. onions and maybe some kind of sauce.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
pencils and pens and notebooks. a laptop a tablet. maybe a new phone.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
pencils and pens and notebooks. a laptop a tablet. maybe a new phone.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
... well. i guess she's off the market now. and i guess its no skin off my cock.

#megamatzoballs
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
... she said something about the beach and a fish net g string and a large otter. and sand. it gets everywhere. even a woman's crotch. and even a one as unbelievably tight as it gets.

#megamatzoballs
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
well. um. if you want to know the truth. im actually part of the team investigating you know who. and. it. um. it honestly felt like she had sand in her crotch. fine grain sand. gently abrasive. good. but still. she had a sand crotch.

#megamatzoballs

...

Link, Bookmark, and Favorites Dump

...

https://www.lendup.com/#loans

https://www.intownsuites.com/extended-stay-locations/texas/arlington/

https://psiloveyou.xyz/5-qualities-women-find-to-be-the-most-attractive-in-men-5ca3b1ae24bb

https://www.cnbc.com/2020/06/17/communication-and-etiquette-tips-for-the-virtual-workplace.html?__source=Facebook%7CINT&fbclid=IwAR1KXeETBhwVM7W7tzxUzv16ixtpe0h-S9eYp9Yydy-vy0ZcmzXiKFngP1M

https://www.marketwatch.com/story/the-extra-600-americans-get-in-weekly-unemployment-benefits-ends-next-month-heres-what-lawmakers-are-proposing-to-replace-it-2020-06-09

https://www.dol.gov/coronavirus/unemployment-insurance

https://www.dol.gov/coronavirus/unemployment-insurance

what's on my mind?

i don't understand it.

okay. so what i want to know is. how does an emphasis. so. how does the individualized projects / team projects dichotomy reconcile itself with the work from home (WFH) / return to the office (RTO) dichotomy? and. i'm not trying to suggest.

anyway. i think that i've come with a solution to. like. how to respond. to any kind of. anyway. i'm not really going to worry about this for now because. i'm really not in that line of work anyway. and i have no intention of pursuing that line of work.

when i think about this. i just really don't want to suggest anything. i don't want to bring up anything that could. like. challenge the work from home (WFH) movement. i don't really want to say anything that would suggest that i'm anti-work-from-home, or anything. because.

and then, let's suppose hybrid-work environments. how do you hybridize individualized projects and team projects? what is the industry jargon for hybridized individualized collaboration work?

okay. i'll just take a position. if the team is the be all and end all of a project, then (RTO) would be optimal, wouldn't it? because you would have that additional layer of in-person collaboration that you just wouldn't get from tele-conferencing.

okay. so here. i have an idea for the. well. here's the thing. there are arguments for both sides of the return to the office (RTO) / work from home (WFH) argument.

one issue. one idea is that the (WFH) movement is a conspiracy on the part of the collaboration software industrial complex, how do we know this: cui bono! and, you could also say that, anyone who returns to the office (RTO) is, by definition, a team player, even if the person is a total introvert.

honestly, what side am i on? honestly: cui bono! i benefit most from (WFH) because i really don't like traffic. like really. why is there so much traffic. it's a car maker conspiracy! yeah. that's full disclosure.

and. yeah. that was really more thinking than i wanted to do after reading a short tweet and a few supporting tweets. 

i want to say that. i'm probably going to stay off of twitter for the time being.

i'm fucking tired.

alright. i'm feeling better. but. well. i wanted to say: who knows how long this will last. but. i don't want to think that way. i want to think. things are okay right now. and i'm sure they'll get better. i'm sure that things will continue to improve.

...



Congratulations! You’re now part of a community that connects tours and activities businesses with travelers across the world.

With access to our best-in-class Management Center, you have everything you need to manage products, bookings, and more, all in one place.

Ready to get started? Here’s what you can do:

•	Create and edit products

•	Contact travelers

•	Manage bookings

•	View booking reports

•	Update availability

•	Manage and respond to reviews

•	Access banking and payment information

Get started

If you need help, we're here for you. Visit our:

•		Help Center for answers to common questions and a Getting Started Guide

•		Operator Resource Center for ways to optimize your business and experiences

•		Live Chat to ask a representative for help with anything

Viator

Management Center	|	Privacy Policy	|	Help Center

© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.

Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.

Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494











3 of 5

A new user was added to your account

Trash



Viator <account@t1.viator.com>

Sun, Aug 28, 12:14 AM

to ilovekristin



This message has been deleted. Restore message

Didn’t update your information? Get in touch ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ 

Viator

Hi Kenneth,

A new user with access to your payout settings was added to your Supplier account *** ***. To protect your account, they will not be able to edit your payout settings until August 29 at 12:14 AM.

If neither you nor one of your employees made this change, contact supplier support immediately. For any other questions or concerns, please visit our help center.

Best regards,

The Viator team

Viator

Management Center	|	Privacy Policy	|	Help Center

© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.

Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.

Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494



Your two-factor authentication code request

Trash



Viator <account@t1.viator.com>

Sun, Aug 28, 12:12 AM

to ilovekristin



This message has been deleted. Restore message

Your code expires in 20 minutes ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ 

Viator

Hi Kenneth,

You requested a two-factor authentication code for Kenneth Larot Yamat, Supplier ID: *** ***

Here's your unique code: *** ***

Your code expires in 20 minutes.

 

Green check icon		This two-step authentication adds an extra layer of protection when you're using Viator Systems.

 

Contact supplier support immediately if you did not request this code.

For any other issues, please visit our help center.

Best Regards,

The Viator team

Viator

Management Center	|	Privacy Policy	|	Help Center

© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.

Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.

Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494





Hi Kenneth,

You requested a two-factor authentication code for Kenneth Larot Yamat, Supplier ID: ******.

Here's your unique code: ******

Your code expires in 20 minutes.





This two-step authentication adds an extra layer of protection when you're using Viator Systems.





Contact supplier support immediately if you did not request this code.

For any other issues, please visit our help center.

Best Regards,

The Viator team













Management Center | Privacy Policy | Help Center



© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.

Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.

Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494













...







I have no fucking idea where to begin. This place is a real nightmare.





...















Chestnut and Hazel



Mon, Aug 22, 9:00 PM











to kennethlarotyamat, me, kenneth.larot.yamat









This message has been deleted. Restore message















---------- Forwarded message ---------

From: Viator <email@t1.viator.com>

Date: Wed, Aug 10, 2022 at 7:37 PM

Subject: Security Update: your account now has increased protection

To: <prospectus.media.group@gmail.com>













Multi-factor authentication is enabled ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌









Dear Operator,

In response to a growing number of global cybersecurity threats, Viator is taking additional steps to protect your account.



The next time you login to your account you will notice two new features:





• reCAPTCHA security module that helps to protect Viator accounts against robot hacking attempts.



• Multi-factor authentication that sends a code to your email address that you logged in with. Multi-factor authentication is an extra layer of protection used to ensure the security of your account.





We take security measures very seriously and appreciate your partnership in ensuring online account protection. If you have any questions please contact Viator's support team using the onsite chat feature.





Login to your account

















Management Center | Privacy Policy | Help Center



© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.

Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.

Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494







Trash





5 of 5

Fwd: Security Update: your account now has increased protection

Trash



Chestnut and Hazel

Mon, Aug 22, 9:00 PM

to kennethlarotyamat, me, kenneth.larot.yamat



This message has been deleted. Restore message





---------- Forwarded message ---------

From: Viator <email@t1.viator.com>

Date: Wed, Aug 10, 2022 at 7:37 PM

Subject: Security Update: your account now has increased protection

To: <prospectus.media.group@gmail.com>





Multi-factor authentication is enabled ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ 

Viator

Dear Operator,





5 of 5

Fwd: Security Update: your account now has increased protection

Trash



Chestnut and Hazel

Mon, Aug 22, 9:00 PM

to kennethlarotyamat, me, kenneth.larot.yamat



This message has been deleted. Restore message





---------- Forwarded message ---------

From: Viator <email@t1.viator.com>

Date: Wed, Aug 10, 2022 at 7:37 PM

Subject: Security Update: your account now has increased protection

To: <prospectus.media.group@gmail.com>





Multi-factor authentication is enabled ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ 

Viator

Dear Operator,

In response to a growing number of global cybersecurity threats, Viator is taking additional steps to protect your account.



The next time you login to your account you will notice two new features:

•		reCAPTCHA security module that helps to protect Viator accounts against robot hacking attempts.

 

•		Multi-factor authentication that sends a code to your email address that you logged in with. Multi-factor authentication is an extra layer of protection used to ensure the security of your account.

We take security measures very seriously and appreciate your partnership in ensuring online account protection. If you have any questions please contact Viator's support team using the onsite chat feature.

Login to your account

Viator

Management Center	|	Privacy Policy	|	Help Center

© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.

Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.

Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494



Mail Delivery Subsystem

Mon, Aug 22, 9:00 PM

to prospectus.media.group



This message has been deleted. Restore message

Error Icon

Address not found

Your message wasn't delivered to kennethlarotyamat@chestnutandhazel.com because the address couldn't be found, or is unable to receive mail.

LEARN MORE

The response from the remote server was:

550 5.1.1 The email account that you tried to reach does not exist. Please try double-checking the recipient's email address for typos or unnecessary spaces. Learn more at https://support.google.com/mail/?p=NoSuchUser q125-20020acad983000000b0034483a5ef2dsi679228oig.1 - gsmtp









---------- Forwarded message ----------

From: Chestnut and Hazel <prospectus.media.group@gmail.com>

To: kennethlarotyamat@chestnutandhazel.com, Kenneth Larot Yamat <kenneth.larot.yamat@gmail.com>, kenneth.larot.yamat@chestnutandhazel.com

Cc: 

Bcc: 

Date: Mon, 22 Aug 2022 21:00:01 -0500

Subject: Fwd: Security Update: your account now has increased protection

----- Message truncated -----In response to a growing number of global cybersecurity threats, Viator is taking additional steps to protect your account.







The next time you login to your account you will notice two new features:

•		reCAPTCHA security module that helps to protect Viator accounts against robot hacking attempts.

 

•		Multi-factor authentication that sends a code to your email address that you logged in with. Multi-factor authentication is an extra layer of protection used to ensure the security of your account.

We take security measures very seriously and appreciate your partnership in ensuring online account protection. If you have any questions please contact Viator's support team using the onsite chat feature.

Login to your account

Viator

Management Center	|	Privacy Policy	|	Help Center

© 2022 Viator, Inc. All rights reserved.

Please do not reply directly to this email. This was sent from an address that cannot accept responses. For questions or assistance, visit our Help Center.

Viator, Inc., 400 First Ave, Needham, MA 02494



Mail Delivery Subsystem

Mon, Aug 22, 9:00 PM

to prospectus.media.group



This message has been deleted. Restore message

Error Icon

Address not found

Your message wasn't delivered to kennethlarotyamat@chestnutandhazel.com because the address couldn't be found, or is unable to receive mail.

LEARN MORE

The response from the remote server was:

550 5.1.1 The email account that you tried to reach does not exist. Please try double-checking the recipient's email address for typos or unnecessary spaces. Learn more at https://support.google.com/mail/?p=NoSuchUser q125-20020acad983000000b0034483a5ef2dsi679228oig.1 - gsmtp









---------- Forwarded message ----------

From: Chestnut and Hazel <prospectus.media.group@gmail.com>

To: kennethlarotyamat@chestnutandhazel.com, Kenneth Larot Yamat <kenneth.larot.yamat@gmail.com>, kenneth.larot.yamat@chestnutandhazel.com

Cc: 

Bcc: 

Date: Mon, 22 Aug 2022 21:00:01 -0500

Subject: Fwd: Security Update: your account now has increased protection

----- Message truncated -----





Your two-factor authentication code request

















Viator <account@t1.viator.com>



Sun, Aug 28, 12:12 AM











to ilovekristin









This message has been deleted. Restore message

















Your code expires in 20 minutes ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌ ‌









...



That was a nightmare. I went on this strange road-trip, crossing nearly a jillion states, I ended up in the psychiatric hospital on a court ordered mental health hold. Something similar to a 51-50 in California. and now I'm back home.

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 66

so first thing. sleep. second thing. file my disability claim.

i've gotten really fat. i've always been husky. but i feel like there was a time when i was getting lean. when i'm thin. it seems to worry people. i mean. i'm not thin.

good lord. nose hairs. i shaved all that fucking hair off, and my nose hairs were like a goatee practically. 

i was at the free play arcade here in arlington, and i think that i almost saw someone from vegas. but. i think it was actually vladamir putin. i mean. like vehicle wise.

...





Notes from Arlington, Texas # 71

I need to think for a minute. I was thinking: maybe everything since leaving Missouri has been a, kind of a two year manic episode, that's kind of still going on right now. I think it's kind of important to. maybe it's kind of important to take regular vacations or something. like small ones.

I finally sorted through all the stuff I had from the hospital, and all the weird shit I bought during the road trip. and I came across my discharge paperwork, and I have an appointment. a follow up appointment on the 15th.

* * *

This is a nightmare. and. well. I've been here before. so. I know what to expect. vaguely. 

...









Notes from Arlington, Texas #72 

I remember a time when I felt happy, and now, I'm not sure I feel any which way about anything.

The only thing I feel now is sadness. I'm heading back to Texas.

...







The rural carrier associate is a 
young woman with a lisp that lingers
long enough to wreck your week, and
fiery jade eyes that burn in your
mind every subsequent week.

I try to buy stamps, twenty is too much for
one stamp, and she can't break bills, and
I can't have them all, I ask to trade stamps,
one for one, she's not sure that's okay,
so she phones a friend. she asks
if I have exact change and I say:
yes! I do.

Notes from Arlington, Texas #73

These last few months have been extremely strange. I think I went on the exact same road trip twice. I think that I'm going to stay away from doing any kind of adventures or sill stuff for the time being. I have to catch up with whatever kind of garbage I sort of, got myself into over these last few months. I'm not sure why things have turned out this way, but it's not a huge deal, at least, I think that this is all fixable.

...







































...

Notes, Thoughts, and Reflections While Using the Bloomberg Terminal









































something
happened
no one
knows what it was
but it was
something that
no one was
anticipating

...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

This was in January 2020, before the Pandemic, and my situation at the time was that I was working at the tractor warehouse and the hotel, I was saving and investing very aggressively and paying down my debts to improve my credit score. I had a few ideas for 2020 at the time, but, I really didn't have any definite plans. 

I was thinking that I could continue working two jobs, both of which were full time, and  80 + hours a week most of the time. I figured that I could continue saving and investing and improving my credit score until some kind of opportunity popped up, and I saw three possible opportunities. 

One possible opportunity was that I might somehow end up in a relationship with someone, I didn't have anyone definite in mind, but I thought that I might meet someone new and things would just happen right away, or maybe an existing friendship might become romantic, or an ongoing hook-up might become serious.

The second possible opportunity that I thought about was, was that I might pursue some kind of business opportunity if the right one popped up, either doing something that was interested in doing regardless of whether it was profitable or not, or pursuing a business opportunity that I was absolutely sure was profitable.

The third possible opportunity that I thought about pursuing was going back to college at UMKC, I had already been accepted for the fall semester of 2019 but I withdrew before the semester started, and I figured that I might come back around to this idea if the circumstances seemed right.










































...


In my mind, capitalizing on any one of these three possible opportunities would have been easiest if I had money, and the ability to borrow money, and that's why I wanted to continue focusing on saving, investing, and working on my credit score.

Taking a new job, even if it was one that I was interested in, would have taking me in a different direction. In retrospect, I ended up in a totally different direction anyway. I ended up in Texas, but in January of 2020 I was thinking that if I continued to work at the tractor factory and the hotel, at some point during 2020 I would be able to pursue one of the three opportunities that I thought about pursuing, it was just a matter of one of the three possible opportunities presenting itself, and then, I'd pounce.

Anyway. I was at the Library in Lewisville. I went to Lewisville for lunch, and it was a really long drive getting there, not in milage, but time, so I figured that I would go to the nearest library, which was in Lewisville, rather than heading all the way back to Arlington to get some work done at home, or at the campus library, or the city library. I didn't get anything done. Well, I didn't get anything concrete done. I did manage to reflect about the last time I applied for a similar position, and why I thought that taking the position wasn't right at the time, but I still have to think about if pursuing such a position is right at this point in time, and I think that it is. The reason is that I'm looking for an internship, and if I can find a Spring 2023 internship, that would be really great, however, pursuing an Summer 2023 internship, and landing a position in the meantime is preferable.

I did miss two career related opportunities at school, there was a work-study workshop a few days ago, and a career fair that happened today. I tried to find the campus career center the other day, but I ran into an issue: sometimes maps and directory of the campus list either the names, or the purpose of the building, there might be Preston Hall or Ransom Hall, and there might be the Science Building, or the Engineering Building, and so on. Well, I remember walking across campus and I came across a building, once, that just said Career Center or UTA Career Center, or something, but on the map, and on the directory, there is no such building, the directory listed a career center, but when I went to the location listed on the directory, it took me to the Student Administration Building, which I'm guessing had a career center or something, or maybe they administered the work-study program. One possibility is that, and this is probably the situation, I think that the Financial Aid Office is in the Student Administration Building, and I think that work-study is related to Financial Aid, and I remember that the FAFSA application asks if applicants to specify if they are interested in work-study grants, and that work-study grants are limited, and needs-based, or allocated on the basis or need or something.

Well, anyway. If there is such a thing as an academic year, then today is the start of the academic weekend. I feel guilty for not doing anything objectively productive today, but, it's important that I reflect on things that have happened in the past in order to formulate an approach to things that are happening in the present. I'm going to make a firm commitment to apply for an open position at the company, and mention that my intention is to participate in an internship with the company later on in the future, and also work on some of my course work.

...

I have to keep looking for some kind of work-study program, an internship, or a co-op program. The internship that I was for fall, but, since it was a 6 month program stretching from July to December, I'm guessing that candidates have already been selected, so I'm not going to complete the application there. Then, after my first class today I came across another internship that I would be interested in for the Summer of 2023, however, that's ten months to a year out into the future, and I think that I might change my mind at that point.

I dropped one class to bring me back down to six units per semester, the only reason I was trying to take nine units was to apply for the transportation fellowship, but, that prospect is kind of moot right now.

...

I was thinking about buying a new outfit or something, but I have a million outfits. I really don't need to buy any more outfits. In fact I really think that I shouldn't be buying much of anything until I find work. I'm still somewhat conflicted about the work search.

Well, I just came to a conclusion. I shouldn't be looking for specific positions. I mean. I didn't have a specific position in mind anyway. What I mean is. I shouldn't be browsing open positions. I should be looking for, and looking at internships and co-op positions. I'm applying for one right now.

This looks like it's going to be a long process. Applying for the internship / co-op, and doing it in a way that makes me an appealing candidate. 

...

So what happened today? well. there was a kind of monsoon kind of rain storm in the Dallas - Fort Worth area, and my area was kind of hard hit. In fact. There is another section of the apartment complex that was ordered to evacuate after having flooded.

The weather kind of effected me in a way that I wasn't really expecting. I wasn't going to buy a parking permit because I consider the distance from my residence to the campus to be perfectly walkable. but. it's really not walkable in the rain. I wore this wool jacket that I bought at an army surplus store and it started to smell like a goat once it got wet.

I need to apply for 1 position before the day, well, night ends, but I'll come around to that.

anyway. i bought a parking permit and looked for a place to park, the parking lot I thought would have space, did not have space, so I parked in this other parking lot, and walked around campus and stuff. got a student ID and checked out the campus library. the campus library is open 24 hours a day, and I really want to see how that works. I was exploring and stuff, and, then I checked the time, and it turned out to be about 30 minutes before class started. The business building is close to the street, so even though it's a smoke-free campus, it's not a far walk to get off-campus. more or less.

anyway. I think i finished all the stuff. all the major challenges of fixing stuff around my apartment. and. I'm excited because one section of the wall in my closet looks almost like it could be a painting in its own right. like it could be a painting of it's own. almost. i really like it. but here is the thing.

I want to take a picture of it, but. I almost feel like people might get the wrong idea of it. like. as though i'm clueless about craftsmanship or something. and what i mean is.

i think that the work that i've performed on my wall should be judged according to the standards of artistry, rather than the standards of craftsmanship.

anyway. i think i'll apply for a position. and then take a look at the stuff for school. 

I don't know if any more storms are expected for the coming days.

oh and about the job search. i remember. for a while i was getting flooded with emails and text messages for positions with this or that company, this was back before the june road trip. and. for some reason i really didn't respond to anything. but there was a position that i accepted, but didn't complete the on-boarding process with. i thought the position was. well. i don't know what i thought but i didn't take the position, because i was skeptical about the whole thing. but when i took the first road trip and passed through Nashville, it occurred to me that i shouldn't have been as skeptical as i was.

anyway.

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 69

* * *

I'm going to take a nap, and see where that goes. There was an email from college that was dated 06/20, and it's fucking 07/12. I responded to the email and took care of the things they told me to, but, I don't think that I have to worry too much since the fall semester doesn't start for another 5 weeks I think.

one thing that I didn't know, until going on this road trip, was that chip cards can actually be held by the card chip reader.

* * *

"The Young Woman who is the Post Office"

The rural carrier associate is a 
young woman with a lisp that lingers
long enough to wreck your week, and
fiery jade eyes that burn in your
mind every subsequent week.

I try to buy stamps, twenty is too much for
one stamp, and she can't break bills, and
I can't have them all, I ask to trade stamps,
one for one, she's not sure that's okay,
so she phones a friend. she asks
if I have exact change and I say:
yes! I do.

...

i think that the above post was from after my first roadtrip. it had to have been. the post is dated for early july, and the road trip was during june, and then i was in the hospital for about half of july. and that's one thing i have to look into. the hospital bills. shit.

...

first day of class. it was kind of an ordeal because it was raining.

...

I'm hungry. i had catfish. for lunch. and flounder.

...

I put my class schedule on my calendar. I updated my LinkedIn.

I did some organizing.

I did some additional work on my closet. paint and glue take longer to dry than i originally imagined.

um. i didn't mention this here, but i painted my patio after having painted a painting on my patio. i made a painting out of my patio, and then followed it up with painting the patio in a kind of concrete colored gray. and now it more or less looks like a patio that never had anything special done to it. there is one issue: even though I used interior / exterior paint. it seems to bubble up from time to time. so i usually just pop the paint bubbles like concrete, and then leave it at that. i'm sure that at some point i'll paint over them, and if they bubble up again, then i'll just pop them again.

i have to apply for a position before i head to sleep.

it's hot, but it's also windy. so leaving the window open has it's limitations.

well. now it's raining. i applied for a position, and this position has nothing to do with finance, or even with business.

...

I want to rethink this:

School Starts tomorrow.

I have to look for work.

I have to repair a few things with my apartment.

and I have to organize my personal things.

school starting. and looking for work play into each other in the sense that i need to look for work that is relevant to my studies, that works from a scheduling and commute standpoint.

but there is also the competing issue of just needing to find something that pays the bills.

and it's possible that there might be something that isn't relevant to my studies. but is something that i'm interested in. and it pays the bills. something like this would be working at art & crafts supplies store. another thing would be. there was this furniture store that I came across when I was in Illinois that I found interesting. I don't know how to describe it because it wasn't exactly a furniture store, and it wasn't exactly a home improvement store. it did sell furniture, and it did have displays of different types of engineered hardwoods, tiles, and synthetic woods, and carpets.

and then. as far as looking for work goes. there is this landscaping thing that i think is interesting. when I was in the looney bin there was a guy there who said he has a landscaping business. and. the only reason i'm thinking about this is because there was a person on twitter who posted photographs of her front yard, and how she transformed it from a front yard lawn, into a front yard forest. in fact i'm still looking for that photograph.

i got sidetracked goofing off on twitter. and all i was really doing was looking for that photograph of that one lady two transformed her front yard from a front yard lawn. into a front yard forest preserve.

...

i have to get my thoughts together. but i have to take a nap first.

school starts tomorrow.

i have to look for work.

i have work on things around my apartment.

i have to get organized.

the school issue bleeds into the work issue. in the sense that i have to find work with a work schedule that works with my school schedule, and maybe even works commute wise. or i guess i mean. something close to home and school.

...

alright. well i applied for 1 position. and i did work on something around my apartment. i worked on the wall in my closet. i'm dealing with one issue. that. is kind of a silly issue. but kind of a serious issue. but not a totally serious issue. it's the issue of having too much fucking paint. i bought one gallon of  gray paint, that i really didn't need, and one gallon of black paint, an amount that i definitely didn't need. anyway. i'm kind of using the black paint as kind of. well. i don't know. i mean. i don't know how to explain how i'm using it. my intention isn't to paint the wall black.

...

i found a position that i want to apply for.

so I applied. now the other thing.

what can i do around my apartment?

I had a flower pot, and i tried to plant a bouquet of flowers that i bought a few days ago, but it didn't work. um. the other day i also saw a plant that i wanted to buy, but i didn't buy it. so. that was that.

i have to make a point of submitting one application a day,

...

i went out to buy a pipe tobacco, and, for some reason, I selected a tobacco shop in Hurst as the place that I would take directions to. I ended up buying a pipe, some cigarettes, and a brass ring featuring a kind of figurine of Ganesha. and then. while driving back. i stopped at a kind of tex-mex style restaurant and ate there, i felt like i didn't eat as much as i would normally eat, given how much i enjoy eating, but i ate enough to be full.

okay. today. i want to get a few things done: (1) submit at least 1 application or resume (2) do some kind of work on my apartment after submitting an application.

one of my neighbors gave me a few packets of ramen that she said she didn't want to eat because she didn't like the flavor, but i think that i threw away my cooking pot a while back.

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 70

the first thing i need to do is get some sleep. the second thing i need to do is find work. one of the things that hangs me up when it comes to filing a disability claim is that. i feel. at least in my mind. that i'm capable of working without accommodations.

i think what i'll do is file the disability claim with the answer that i am capable of working.

so first thing. sleep. second thing. file my disability claim.

i've gotten really fat. i've always been husky. but i feel like there was a time when i was getting lean. when i'm thin. it seems to worry people. i mean. i'm not thin.

good lord. nose hairs. i shaved all that fucking hair off, and my nose hairs were like a goatee practically. 

i was at the free play arcade here in arlington, and i think that i almost saw someone from vegas. but. i think it was actually vladamir putin. i mean. like vehicle wise.

...

i found one solution to the nose hairs issue, cutting them back can be a headache, and i think, at one point in the past, i used to pluck them out using a tweezer, but there is this small set of scissors that i have with rounded tips that comes with most sewing set, so i'm guessing that it's a sewing scissors, well, i use that thing to cut my nose hairs.

the thing about nose hairs, and the particular challenge that i face regarding nose hairs, is that my nose is short. and i think that most hairs, including nose hairs, have a maximum growth length beyond which they no longer grow. and i think that the maximum growth length of nose hairs exceeds the length of my nose. my really short nose.

what else? who is the someone from vegas? the girl from rainbow boulevard. for some reason, that post seems like it was such a long time ago. and i think i wrote it shortly after the end of my road trip, and subsequent stay in the hospital. so maybe just 1 + 2/3 of a month ago.

...

there are two competing issues when it comes to looking for work. on the one hand. i should be looking for something relevant to my degree. or at least. something that i'm interested in. and could potentially get given that i'm a student. and. that being a student should stand in for a lack of relevant experience.

on the other hand. i might be just fine looking for something that just sort of. you know. covers my expenses with. you know. something left over.

...

I applied for 1 position. I don't think that I included a cover letter. I was thinking about including a cover letter. in fact. including a cover letter was something that i really wanted to do, but for some reason. it slipped my mind.

...

I threw away this shirt that I've had for a while. It was just a regular blue shirt, there was nothing special about it, and I remember buying like, two fucking years ago, and I finally threw it away. I remember buying it, and, shortly afterward a thread came loose, so I tried to fix it using super glue, but it left this kind of glue crust that constantly scratched my skin, and I just sort of lived with it. I have a bunch of other fucking shirts so I don't know why I held on to it for so long, and, just didn't throw it away.

Sometimes I try to donate old clothes that I don't use anymore, but I can never find donation bins, and some donation stations aren't open in the middle of the night. so, i end up just throwing old clothes out, or leaving them near the garbage can for anyone who might want them. I don't know where those ultimately end up, and they might just end up in the trash can anyway.

I need to get a few things from the store. mainly just sodas. i can probably run to the gas station later, in the middle of the night since the gas station is always open, but i'm not doing anything right now and i really don't know what else to do.

i few days ago i thought about going on another. a fucking third. cross-country road trip. but i only made it as far as. somewhere in Dallas. I guess. i was taking the side streets in as much of a north-east direction as the signs could direct me, but it was rush hour, and i hardly got anywhere before i got really frustrated with the traffic and just headed home. i stopped at a convenience store, but, they didn't have any cigarettes, so, i was in a bad mood. i bought a jug of mango juice, and drank it.

I also thought about. i don't know. changing the appearance of my blog.

I changed it.

What other crap? am I thinking about?  

...

I change my clothes several times a day, but no matter what I change into, I always feel sticky.

...

I had to make a payment to UTA for the additional class that I enrolled in. I made a partial payment. I'll pay the rest tomorrow.

...

i ordered a three topping pizza the other day, even though this particular pizza place didn't really have a "make your own pizza" option. i think i had spinach, onions, and artichokes, but these were actually pasta options. i tried adding shrimp, but the lady at the counter said that they didn't offer shrimp on their pizzas, so i didn't have shrimp pizza.

...

for food. i went to the grocery store, and bought a half-gallon of ice-cream. and i ate it all.

so this fellowship opportunity is something of a no-go for right now. maybe next semester. even though there would have been aspects of my application that would have been lacking, like my academic record, i don't really have one, considering that i'm going into my first semester, there is another issue. i really don't have anyone who can provide me with a letter of recommendation on short notice.

Obtaining letters of recommendation can be kind of an issue for me. i don't really know anyone. i don't really make very many friends. i don't really network.

...

i really don't know if i'm hungry or not. i mean i am hungry, but i don't know if i'm hungry enough to go out and get food right now. and if i do go out to get something to eat, what would i go out and eat? i just don't know. there are so many unanswered questions. hehe.

...

i think that my patio and balcony, the railing or whatever, are in nice enough condition that i can stop working on it. there is other stuff that i could work on around my apartment. but i have a hell of a lot of left over paint.

and i have all these fucking tools. i have a hell of a lot of hammers that i really don't anticipate ever. using.

...

I have too much fucking. stuff. clutter. i started throwing away some stuff. but. nothing that i really planned on keeping anyway. i didn't throw away anything that i thought was potentially useful. in fact. i threw away a neck tie that i've had for a long time. and i haven't had a reason to wear a tie in a long fucking time.

...

I'm going to make a change to this post. I was originally putting the newest additions to this post at the bottom of the post, but, just to make it easier to anyone who reads these posts, I'm going to put the newest additions to the post at the top of the post.

...
--- (08-17-2022) 09:48 PM
...

...

I have this idea. and. it's more or less similar to every other idea i've ever had. so. I guess this isn't really a new idea or anything. it's just a variation on an existing idea. i'm just going to write one long ass poem. called. painting the patio. and that's it. i'm going to work some of my other writings into this poem. somehow.

...

what are some things that i'm dealing with right now? school starts. classes start on the 22nd of august. i haven't worked in about 2 months. i've been obliterating my investment and retirement accounts. i have stuff i have to catch up on. i have to clear out my car. i have to get my car fixed. routine maintenance and stuff. i can't believe how many miles i've driven these last few months. i have traffic tickets and highway tolls that i need to pay. i have social security stuff and this other stuff i have to deal with. i have to. well. i should be looking for work.

...

I never received payment for the unpaid wages claim that i filed with the Texas Workforce Commission. I'm really glad I stopped working for that janitorial company after 2 days. it would have been just a larger amount of unpaid wages.

one of the issues with the unpaid wages claim that I submitted to the Texas Workforce Commission is that the investigator assigned to my claim kept calling me and asking for information that i already listed in the initial claim that i filed.

my guess is that he was hoping that i wouldn't come around to responding, and then would disposition the claim as: claimant unresponsive, or something. and then end the issue that way.

anyway. i think that i filed a claim for around 110 dollars or something. so it's not a big deal.

...

"Painting the Patio"

...

there was an issue with one of the copyright claims that i filed a while back. the claim was kicked back as filed incorrectly, or, that the claim couldn't be processed as submitted, and would have to be resubmitted. and that's just another thing that i'm not totally going to deal with right now.

i think that this particular copyright claim. and the unpaid wages claim. are both things that i could pursue until i receive a satisfactory resolution. right now. i'm just not going to deal with these things.

...

"Painting the Patio"

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas #73

These last few months have been extremely strange. I think I went on the exact same road trip twice. I think that I'm going to stay away from doing any kind of adventures or sill stuff for the time being. I have to catch up with whatever kind of garbage I sort of, got myself into over these last few months. I'm not sure why things have turned out this way, but it's not a huge deal, at least, I think that this is all fixable.

...

what were the things that i need to fix? well. these adventures that i've gone on left my credit cards maxed out, my checking accounts drained, my investment accounts empty, and. well. everything is kind of a catastrophe.

...

i think that i sold most of my bullion coins at pawn shops and coin dealers in other states. i took quite a bit of losses on those fucking things. those were pointless places to put my money.

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas #72

I remember a time when I felt happy, and now, I'm not sure I feel any which way about anything.

The only thing I feel now is sadness. I'm heading back to Texas.

...

I don't know where I was when I wrote that post. I was probably in a different state, as in, a state other than Texas, but probably in a different mental state as well. right now I'm clearing out my list of things to do. there are a lot of things that I need to take care of. I kind of need to look for work again. and I kind of want to work nights, but this might not work with my class schedule, since most class times assume that people work during the day, and, well, most people do work during the day.

...

I'm cleaning up old posts, and I'm going to turn them all into one gigantic post. that's the idea here.

...

I still kind of want to drive to Alaska. I think it would be the coolest thing ever. I mean, other people have done it before, but. I haven't done it before. and I think it would be the most amazing thing that I could do. i have to take care of a number of things before i do something like this. i have to take care of any traffic tickets and tolls that i've racked up over these past few months while taking road trips. and then i have to have work done on my car. i have to look for work too. i am nearly cleared out financially. i'm lucky that nothing major happened to my car during this road trip, like during my road trip through Louisiana.

...

Tuesday, October 6, 2020

117 Sanford Street

What is on my List of Things to do?

I won't worry about that right now.
What i was thinking was that. well.
sometimes i think funny things, and
sometimes i remember funny things,
and there are times when i wish that
i had written those funny thoughts
and things down somewhere. i don't
always get a chance to do that.

* * *

it hasn't really mattered to me in the
longest time.

...

Ken Yamat, is the one who did this and Kenneth L. Yamat, is also the
one who also did this they did it, but is it Kenneth or Ken?
well It all depends on who you ask and when you ask.

* * *

I have work tomorrow early in the
afternoon. the stock market ran up,
and then abruptly dipped the other
day. Still, my limit order wasn't filled.
not that I exactly want to to be filled.
i mean. i do want to to be filled but
i don't know if i want a drop that big.

* * *

there was this thing that happened the other day. I got an email regarding chocolates, and, i was thinking about sending the blue box recipient a box of chocolates. but. i don't even know. there is no telling what that could lead to. and i mean that in the sense that there are negative consequences of sending a box of chocolates that I'm worried about.

* * *

but here is another thing, maybe chocolates could be a hint for something else. i have no idea. well. i don't know really. like maybe, maybe the second job stuff and sending a gift with my resume. it's an idea, but i'm not sure how well it would work.

* * *

working on cleaning out my email box. also working on cleaning up my calendar of stuff that i can do whenever.

* * *

benefits elections. i can do that later.

* * *

i may need to check my mailbox at the UPS Store. i have to actually go out there, but i think that i actually went there not too long ago. i really don't want to check it more than i need to because checking it requires a special journey.

* * *

this is where Sanford street 117 and the Painting the Patio post switch from one to the other.

...

it's been a while since I had a mailbox at the UPS store. a long time. I thought that simply having a mailbox would be enough for most of the things that I need an address for, but, for some reason, i need to have a legitimate residential address for a lot of things that require an address, and a mailbox, a private mailbox or even a post office box isn't enough to satisfy those address requirements.

after the 1-year lease of the mailbox at the UPS store, I didn't bother to renew. there seems to be an issue with my residential mailbox, however. the city postal carrier doesn't seem to make much of an effort picking up the outgoing mail. it might be that he doesn't bother picking it up daily, or, maybe he just never picks it up.

...

I'm really tired. I've been staying up late. I haven't been doing anything interesting. Other than painting my patio. I kind of like the way it looks.

The two main things that I need to focus on right now are my social security disability application, stuff for college, and cleaning and repairing things around my apartment.

the disability application is due in a few fucking days, the college stuff is due a few fucking days after that, and the apartment stuff really doesn't have a due date or deadline.

...

I'm really thinking about forgetting about the social security disability application for now. the reason being that. even if i finish the application by the deadline, which is in a few days. it takes months for a decision to be made, and then several more months to receive a first payment. i'm better off just forgetting about if for now, having my claim denied, and then maybe reapplying later on down the line, and anyway. i might be able to find work before then.

...

i bought a new computer, but it is way slower than my previous computer. way slower.

...

Letters from Sanford Street # 44

Oh my god. Jesus. My lord.

I'm uploading all of these Submittable poems to my Blog. Many of them haven't been here before. Many of them I haven't already scraped and posted to my blog. The reason why is that. While a submission is under consideration by the magazine or journal, it's important that the work in the submission doesn't appear any where else, either online or in print, so I may have just left them in Submittable without posting them here, and later forgot to collect them when they were rejected.

I'm at the Copyright website, and checking it out.

* * *

I want to try getting a copyright on something, just to fill out the form, and pay the fee, and see how the whole process works. I don't think that I'll eventually make any money out of this. I don't think that I'm going to make any money from anything that I copyright. This is just an experiment.

...

The previous section was from my Letters from Sanford Street series. I think that it was posted some time in September of 2020. and I think, it had to have been before I filed my first copyright. and I think. my first piece of writing that I submitted to the copyright office was "The Senior Director."

...

I deleted my Plenty of Fish account. I think that I had about 8 months left on my subscription, but, it was more or less useless anyway. I'm not sure that I really want to pursue a relationship, or, anything like that, even in my profile I think that I noted that I'm not really looking for a relationship or any kind of commitment. There wasn't an option to describe exactly why I don't want to use the dating app any more, so I just selected the option "I give up" as the reason for deleting my account.

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 71

I need to think for a minute. I was thinking: maybe everything since leaving Missouri has been a, kind of a two year manic episode, that's kind of still going on right now. I think it's kind of important to. maybe it's kind of important to take regular vacations or something. like small ones.


I finally sorted through all the stuff I had from the hospital, and all the weird shit I bought during the road trip. and I came across my discharge paperwork, and I have an appointment. a follow up appointment on the 15th.

* * *

This is a nightmare. and. well. I've been here before. so. I know what to expect. vaguely.

...

So, after the road trip that landed me in the hospital, I went on a similar road trip the following month. I'm back home. I'm not working.

There are a few things related to school that I'm working on. One is getting into a 3rd class. Part of the reason I'm trying to get into this third class is because I'm applying for this fellowship, it's kind of a research grant, and it comes with a monthly stipend. Anyway, the fellowship requires that I'm enrolled full-time, which is 9 units for a graduate student.

So I'm trying to get into this third class, and there is this kind of application process involved.

...

I have to try not to feel overwhelmed by the things that I have to deal with. None of this is too serious. None of this is too challenging.

...

I completed my application for the third class that I'm trying to get into, but I also managed to complete my Social Security Disability application as well. What happened with the disability application is that, I really didn't want to go through all the paperwork involved, much of the information required would have been kind of a headache to go through and track down. I was lucky because someone from the social security administration reached out to me over the phone, and submitted a revised application based on my responses to his questions.

I was somewhat amused by some of my own responses to his questions.

So now I just have to work on my fellowship application.

and then look for work.

...

Sunday, July 26, 2020
Yeah, this blog is on an indefinite hiatus.
Yeah, this blog is on an indefinite hiatus. 

* * *

Yeah, this blog is on indefinite hiatus. 

All subsequent posts will be referred to as the indefinite hiatus series.

* * *

Cracks in the concrete of the 
patio of the balcony. I'm always 
out there, yet hardly notice.

#tercet
#haiku

* * *

Monday, July 27, 2020
indefinite hiatus day 1
sometimes it's real or isn't real. i think that for this series, i'm going to type in all lowercase letters. this is the first day of my indefinite hiatus. 
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 4:24 AM 

* * *

Monday, July 27, 2020
indefinite hiatus day 1
sometimes it's real or isn't real. i think that for this series, i'm going to type in all lowercase letters. this is the first day of my indefinite hiatus. 
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 4:24 AM

* * *

Monday, July 27, 2020
indefinite hiatus day 2
today was a kind of a normal day i guess. i'm tired. sometimes i need to smoke, and i go outside, and someone is always there. or arrives shortly after i arrive. what is the hiatus? i think that a hiatus is when something is delayed.

whatever i'm waiting for. i still seem to be waiting for it. 

i also have to remember to buy sneakers. i already have shoes and boots, but i think that i have boots that would actually meet the specifications listed in the job description, so i may be able to wear those if my boots don't arrive. i might need to start shopping now actually.

or, to put it another way, i may need to actually start shopping now. 

* * *

i'm super tired. what i think is. it's getting hot again. i think i need to just stay inside. i think it's the actual sun that is actually burning me right now. so tired. 
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 3:51 PM 

* * *

Monday, July 27, 2020
indefinite hiatus day 2
today was a kind of a normal day i guess. i'm tired. sometimes i need to smoke, and i go outside, and someone is always there. or arrives shortly after i arrive. what is the hiatus? i think that a hiatus is when something is delayed.

whatever i'm waiting for. i still seem to be waiting for it. 

i also have to remember to buy sneakers. i already have shoes and boots, but i think that i have boots that would actually meet the specifications listed in the job description, so i may be able to wear those if my boots don't arrive. i might need to start shopping now actually.

or, to put it another way, i may need to actually start shopping now. 

* * *

i'm super tired. what i think is. it's getting hot again. i think i need to just stay inside. i think it's the actual sun that is actually burning me right now. so tired. 

* * *

Wednesday, July 29, 2020
indefinite hiatus day 3
Annotation: 05/29/2022 10:31 PM

I'm going through these old posts, and editing them somewhat, making minor changes here and there, but nothing too fabulous. I remember this email. and. I don't know if I would call this hate-mail or what. I have no idea, the person doesn't seem to like me, although. I think I may know the person, but I don't think that I really know who this is from. I don't know. I'm irritated. I was discouraged.

* * *

this is an email i received through the blogger contact form.

* * *

Yo, quit being a simp. She isn't going to give you a reply just for
mailing her a 900 dollar ring. You're wasting your time and money over
love that does not exist. She already moved on and is already focusing on
her career and social life. Women themselves are flawed and are not that
perfect themselves just like us. I'm concerned for your mental health
because it seems that you're OBSESSED with her and its not a good thing.
You think I don't understand anything about love but I have tried it and it
didn't work out. That girl tries to get my hopes high but it ultimately
fails when she doesnt give me attention during our causal date while at the
same time working (yes, it was badly planned out). I had to move on
because it was a waste of time for me. I hope you learn to move on and do
good for yourself. Otherwise, you're gonna learn the hard way. I wish you
the best in life. If not, then you're gonna go down the rabbit hole.

Regards,
Jonathan Price

* * *

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 12:18 AM 

* * *

Wednesday, July 29, 2020
indefinite hiatus day 3
Annotation: 05/29/2022 10:31 PM

I'm going through these old posts, and editing them somewhat, making minor changes here and there, but nothing too fabulous. I remember this email. and. I don't know if I would call this hate-mail or what. I have no idea, the person doesn't seem to like me, although. I think I may know the person, but I don't think that I really know who this is from. I don't know. I'm irritated. I was discouraged.

* * *

this is an email i received through the blogger contact form.

* * *

Yo, quit being a simp. She isn't going to give you a reply just for
mailing her a 900 dollar ring. You're wasting your time and money over
love that does not exist. She already moved on and is already focusing on
her career and social life. Women themselves are flawed and are not that
perfect themselves just like us. I'm concerned for your mental health
because it seems that you're OBSESSED with her and its not a good thing.
You think I don't understand anything about love but I have tried it and it
didn't work out. That girl tries to get my hopes high but it ultimately
fails when she doesnt give me attention during our causal date while at the
same time working (yes, it was badly planned out). I had to move on
because it was a waste of time for me. I hope you learn to move on and do
good for yourself. Otherwise, you're gonna learn the hard way. I wish you
the best in life. If not, then you're gonna go down the rabbit hole.

Regards,
Jonathan Price

* * *

Wednesday, July 29, 2020
indefinite hiatus day 3
this is an email i received through the blogger contact form.

* * *

Yo, quit being a simp.  She isn't going to give you a reply just for 
mailing her a 900 dollar ring.  You're wasting your time and money over 
love that does not exist. She already moved on and is already focusing on 
her career and social life. Women themselves are flawed and are not that 
perfect themselves just like us.  I'm concerned for your mental health 
because it seems that you're OBSESSED with her and its not a good thing.   
You think I don't understand anything about love but I have tried it and it 
didn't work out. That girl tries to get my hopes high but it ultimately 
fails when she doesnt give me attention during our causal date while at the 
same time working (yes, it was badly planned out).  I had to move on 
because it was a waste of time for me.  I hope you learn to move on and do 
good for yourself. Otherwise, you're gonna learn the hard way.  I wish you 
the best in life.  If not, then you're gonna go down the rabbit hole.

Regards,
JonathanPrice 
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 12:18 AM 

* * *

Wednesday, July 29, 2020
indefinite hiatus day 4
Annotation: 05/29/2022 10:35 PM

I don't remember what this purchase was. I think the original thing that I sent was a bracelet. and. she never got it. I think. i did get my money back for all those purchases, but there were a number of things that i had sent to myself, to my private mailbox at the UPS store. I don't know why i did all this. I don't know how i was so out of my mind.

* * *

Thank you for contacting us.

This is to let you know that Tiffany.com Customer Service has received your email. We are experiencing a significant increase in volume and we will respond to your inquiry within 72 hours. If your email is of an urgent matter, please contact us @ 1-800-843-3269

Our hours of operation are Monday – Friday 8:00 AM – 10:00 PM, Saturday and Sunday 10:00 AM – 5:00 PM EST

If you wish to review our privacy policy, please click here:
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 12:20 AM

* * *

Wednesday, July 29, 2020
indefinite hiatus day 5
i took a decent nap today. i'm really kind of tired, but something is keeping me up.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 12:22 AM 

* * *

Wednesday, July 29, 2020
indefinite hiatus day 6


There
really
wasn't
anything here
other than a 
bunch of photographs
screenshots really
of purchases of stamps
that i purchased from
the united state postal service

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 4:15 AM 

* * *

Sunday, August 2, 2020
indefinite hiatus 7
indefinite hiatus 7 infinite hiatus 1

I don't even know what to say to you to get
whatever it is that I'm looking for from you. Hell
is here, this place is melting, I'm not at work and
me stuck at home I can't think of much else. Here in
 
Arlington I feel like I may have went to the 
wrong place, what I'm I doing? This can go on for
all eternity. I'm not happy about it.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:16 AM

* * *

Thursday, August 6, 2020
indefinite hiatus 8
i am really tired. i don't know what is coming next. i'm so tired. the climate here is so different from the way the climate was in either missouri or nevada or california. i realize now how different things can be between different places. it was so hot in nevada that it had to have been hotter than here. i usually stayed indoors in nevada because it was so hot. interviewees. when i came across that word, i was surprised that it was actually spelled that way.

there are times when i think that i should have stayed in missouri, but whatever. really. whatever. i miss <Text Removed>.

i took a hiatus from work for a while. i just can't make it there. it's too far. it's too hot. i'm sure that i will survive this. but i don't always know how to do things in a way that makes very much sense to me. i'm tired. what else do i have to sell.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:21 PM 

* * *

Sunday, August 9, 2020
indefinite hiatus 9
i realized something. in life. it's kind of important to conform. it's just the way it is i guess. 

i'm at the point in my life where i'm struggling just to put food on the table. for one. i don't have a microwave, and i'm afraid of the stove.

i don't know. my thoughts are all over the place.

i bought a paper newspaper.

i was at a coffee shop and i spoke with one of the cashier's and a kind of awakening. i think the reason i didn't really fit in when i was in missouri was that. i wasn't super political. i dislike spending all day arguing about this or that stuff.

let's see. what happened. it's never clear to me which political movement i should side with. we all just want to rip each other apart and give each other shit i think.

what do i do for money? what do i do for money?

i think that we are in that universe where everyone has to take sides and duke it out to the death. or maybe this is all bullshit. i don't really know.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 11:05 AM 

* * *

Sunday, August 9, 2020
indefinite hiatus day 9
i realized something. in life. it's kind of important to conform. it's just the way it is i guess. 

i'm at the point in my life where i'm struggling just to put food on the table. for one. i don't have a microwave, and i'm afraid of the stove.

i don't know. my thoughts are all over the place.

i bought a paper newspaper.

i was at a coffee shop and i spoke with one of the cashier's and a kind of awakening. i think the reason i didn't really fit in when i was in missouri was that. i wasn't super political. i dislike spending all day arguing about this or that stuff.

let's see. what happened. it's never clear to me which political movement i should side with. we all just want to rip each other apart and give each other shit i think.

what do i do for money? what do i do for money?

i think that we are in that universe where everyone has to take sides and duke it out to the death. or maybe this is all bullshit. i don't really know.

* * *

Sunday, August 9, 2020
indefinite hiatus 10
i think that having an opinion is a liability

i also think that not having an opinion is also a liability

i'm so irritated about about everything

i read some articles a while back about a concept called virtue signaling, and the issue is whether or not people actually care about the issues, or if they are just doing things because the social order requires them to, or to look good or whatever.

and i think that those kinds of questions are a kind of like intellect signaling.

and i think. i think that

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 11:30 AM 

* * *

Sunday, August 9, 2020
indefinite hiatus day 10
i think that having an opinion is a liability

i also think that not having an opinion is also a liability

i'm so irritated about about everything

i read some articles a while back about a concept called virtue signaling, and the issue is whether or not people actually care about the issues, or if they are just doing things because the social order requires them to, or to look good or whatever.

and i think that those kinds of questions are a kind of like intellect signaling.

and i think. i think that

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 11:30 AM 

* * *

Sunday, August 9, 2020
indefinite hiatus 11
I was in a lousy mood so i went kyaking. The place pinged for flower mound. And of course i thought id run into <Text Removed>there. And of course i didn't. Anyway. I had a near death experience. And pretty much almost died. But i was in knee deep water so it was a bullshit near death experience.

But about other things. I dont know why i get so cynical. I don't know why i get so fruatrated. I wonder if ill get into college. I wonder if.i have the aptitude. I really dont know.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 5:16 PM 

* * *

indefinite hiatus day 11
I was in a lousy mood so i went kyaking. The place pinged for flower mound. And of course i thought id run into <Text Removed>there. And of course i didn't. Anyway. I had a near death experience. And pretty much almost died. But i was in knee deep water so it was a bullshit near death experience.

But about other things. I dont know why i get so cynical. I don't know why i get so fruatrated. I wonder if ill get into college. I wonder if.i have the aptitude. I really dont know.

* * *

Sunday, August 9, 2020
indefinite hiatus day 11
I was in a lousy mood so i went kyaking. The place pinged for flower mound. And of course i thought id run into <Text Removed>there. And of course i didn't. Anyway. I had a near death experience. And pretty much almost died. But i was in knee deep water so it was a bullshit near death experience.

But about other things. I dont know why i get so cynical. I don't know why i get so fruatrated. I wonder if ill get into college. I wonder if.i have the aptitude. I really dont know.


Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 5:16 PM 

* * *

Monday, August 10, 2020
indefinite hiatus 12
I don't even know what to do. This place is way too hot. Way too hot. The AC unit is constantly rumbling. And it's driving me nuts. I came to texas on a whim and I'm concerned that this may have been the wrong decision. Why did I leave Missouri somewhat out of nowhere. I don't even know. The last thing that I remember is that things were slowly falling apart for me there. Why did I fucking come down here?
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:13 AM 

* * *

Monday, August 10, 2020
indefinite hiatus 13
i'm in kind of a lousy mood. why. am. i here. i need to get a tune up for my car. and maybe that is what i should focus on. if i get only one thing done. i need to get that done.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:39 AM 

* * *

Wednesday, August 12, 2020
indefinite hiatus 14
It's hot. I'm in my car running the air conditioning.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:36 PM

* * *

Wednesday, August 12, 2020
indefinite hiatus day 14
It's hot. I'm in my car running the air conditioning.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:36 PM

* * *

Thursday, August 13, 2020
indefinite hiatus 15
im tired and i really just want to take a nap. i want to go to sleep. It's just so fucking hot. I need to resign from my current job and look for something new.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 3:39 AM  
Email This
BlogThis!
Share to Twitter
Share to Facebook
Share to Pinterest
1 comment:

UnknownAugust 13, 2020 at 10:47 AM
Hi Ken, I hope all is well. I have been a reader of your blog for some time, I truly hope you pick things back up again. I just want to say that there are people out there that truly cares for your well being, never think that you are alone.

You may think that the choices you made are poor or whatever it is, but things happen for a reason right? You made a choice to come to Texas and whether or not it is on a whim, you are there and experiencing life. Who do you know right now, that can pack everything up and just move to a random location? It takes a lot of guts to do that.

Your posts takes people on a roller coaster, it goes up and down. You know what I feel honestly about your feelings about Kristin? You need to let that go, it looks like she has moved on with her relationship and career. You want to spend your time and energy on what is in front of you NOW, not what has happened in the past. Sure, things that you have previously experienced in the past may sculpt how you are as a person now but don't linger in the past. It is time to move on, it will hurt for me to say this but I don't think Kristen ever cared. If she did, you two would be together now. So move on from this part of your life. There are plenty of fishes in the water, there are plenty of wonderful women out there waiting for their future partner. I wished that I had taken this same advice that I am giving you now, had I wasted 10 years of my life with someone who never gave a damn. I finally moved on and found my life partner. I hope you are able to find this person sometime in the future, because you WILL know when this special person steps in your life. Trust me, you will know it. It is not Kristen and unfortunately, it has never been Kristen.

As for your career, I feel as though you are very good with literature and very poetic. Have you considered writing your own book? Just a thought.

All in all, I wish you the best of luck. I hope things start looking more positive. You are a great person, continue to be you. Live the life that you dream. Don't sleep in a sleeping bag, spend money on yourself. Take care of yourself because no one else will. Love yourself and BE WHO YOU ARE.

Your avid reader,
Jamie

Reply Delete

* * *

Saturday, August 15, 2020
indefinite hiatus 16
there was a long comment on my previous blog post. i'm not sure i'm ready to read it. it's probably from my fucking dad or some shit.

i know should read it. but i'm not really sure i should read it.

i'm fucking tired. 

maybe i'll fucking read it.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:46 PM 

* * *

Saturday, August 15, 2020
indefinite hiatus day 16
there was a long comment on my previous blog post. i'm not sure i'm ready to read it. it's probably from my fucking dad or some shit.

i know should read it. but i'm not really sure i should read it.

i'm fucking tired. 

maybe i'll fucking read it.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:46 PM 

* * *

Saturday, August 15, 2020
indefinite hiatus 17
still thinking. i've been wanting to write something for the last few days. still. why the fuck am i in texas. i registered my car. i need to get a driver's license.

i don't know if i'm going to get into school. or what. or what to do next. this is a nightmare.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 2:25 PM 

* * *

Saturday, August 15, 2020
indefinite hiatus 18
one of the recommendations in the comment was to write a book or something. what annoys me about that is i'm not even sure how many times i've tried that. so let's see. let's say i go on one more road trip. to wherever the fuck. where the fuck would that be?

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 3:02 PM 

* * *

Saturday, August 15, 2020
indefinite hiatus 19
so maybe if i take a road trip i'll go this way.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 3:03 PM

* * *

Saturday, August 15, 2020
indefinite hiatus 20
i wonder how cheaply this can be done.

this is an updated map.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 3:50 PM 

* * *

Saturday, August 15, 2020
indefinite hiatus 21
i'm just trying to think of who the commenter could have been. maybe not my dad, maybe someone else, but i'm not sure how long i've had this blog going on. i don't think that this blog was the san jose review, ever.

i think i started it as prospectus media group, then chestnut and hazel, not the san jose review, then prospectus media group, then chestnut and hazel.

and i don't think i've ever had much of a readership.

how cheap can i make this road trip?

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 3:56 PM 

* * *

Saturday, August 15, 2020
indefinite hiatus 22
 
this post was just
a number of photographs.
I look fucking ugly.

i hate the way I look.
i hate taking selfies
i hate taking photographs of myself.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 4:07 PM

* * *

Saturday, August 15, 2020
indefinite hiatus 23

I really don't know what this post
was comprised of, there were a bunch
of what appear to be photographs
on this post, but I don't really have any
idea because this post was taking
forever to load.
 
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 4:18 PM

* * *

Saturday, August 15, 2020
indefinite hiatus 24
i'm really thinking about going on a road trip. just for the weekend. i'm not thinking about relocating. realistically, i can't relocate.

there are a few problems with the job i currently have. i never seem to be able to get to work. i really can't. i think the company is fine, but i just can't seem to get to work. i have to resign at some point and then find something closer to where i live.

i can't relocate again, not for a while, i've hemorrhaged too much cash in just this one move. 

this move was a huge disaster. i don't have any other options really at this point.

I'm actually stuck here.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 5:03 PM

* * *

Saturday, August 15, 2020
indefinite hiatus 25
i'm still thinking. i'm going to go on this little road trip of whatever.

i need to look for a job closer to home, but, i'm not sure how much i can really get done during the weekend.

i keep reading articles about career this, and career that, and shit like that.

and

when i was in cameron missouri, i was on track to make 70 thousand that year, just in wages.

i didn't have anything that would traditionally be defined as a career, but i enjoyed it.

i didn't have shit else to worry about, other than going to work, and going to sleep.

i didn't have some girlfriend constantly making me feel insecure about myself.

or nagging kids unhappy with whatever life i could afford to give them.

or some wife telling me we need a bigger house with a bigger mortgage.

i didn't have any friends i had to compete with in the social pecking order.

i didn't have to worry about who had the biggest dick, or the hottest girlfriend, or the fastest car or the biggest house.

i was actually happy. i was actually just in my own universe, and i was the master of that fucking universe, i did what i fucking wanted to do, and i fucking enjoyed it.

and i was actually really happy with that set up.

i have to think. what the hell do i do now.

i have to look for a new job, and i'll do that when i get back.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 5:24 PM

* * *

Monday, August 17, 2020
indefinite hiatus day 26
N indefinite hiatus day 26
yeah. i came back from this little road trip of mine. i can't exactly sleep right now. for one thing. it is kind of hot. for some reason this room always makes me light headed.

it was a long road trip. and honestly. i felt like i can get better sleep on the road as opposed to in this apartment.

i don't know what to say. 

i can't sleep. so i figured that i might as well work on something.

i was thinking about organizing my stuff.

i figure that i might as well jot down some notes, and maybe work on my calendar.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 12:38 AM

* * *

Monday, August 17, 2020
I indefinite hiatus 27
i don't even know what to do next. realistically. i can't drive very far for work. driving drives me insane. or. it irritates me. after taking my car to the dealership to get serviced, it seems to drive a whole lot better.

i want to say that it may make sense to keep my job. cut my leave of absence short. i don't really know.

i'm so fucking tired.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 12:53 AM 

* * *

Monday, August 17, 2020
I indefinite hiatus 27
i don't even know what to do next. realistically. i can't drive very far for work. driving drives me insane. or. it irritates me. after taking my car to the dealership to get serviced, it seems to drive a whole lot better.

i want to say that it may make sense to keep my job. cut my leave of absence short. i don't really know.

i'm so fucking tired.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 12:53 AM 

* * *

Monday, August 17, 2020
indefinite hiatus 28
T indefinite hiatus 28
im not even sure if this series title works.

im tired. and i don't even know what i should be doing.

i need to get my drivers license.

and i think that's what i'm going to do.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 12:55 PM 

* * *

Monday, August 17, 2020
S indefinite hiatus 29
I went to get my drivers license. The soonest appointment isn't until january.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 3:31 PM 

* * *

Monday, August 17, 2020
I indefinite hiatus 30
Yeah. I guess i tried to get my drivers license. There isn't any availability until january of 2021. I did get a call about my passport application. I'm not sure im going to need a passport.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 6:57 PM 

* * *

Monday, August 17, 2020
R indefinite hiatus 31
i'm not sure how many times i've already said this, but i went to the public safety office to try to get a driver's licence, and i won't be able to get one until next year, when there is availability for an appointment.

whatever.

it may make sense to go back to my job at the airport.

it's temporary, and seasonal, so maybe i don't have to worry too much about anything.

but maybe they hired someone else for that position.

so maybe i'll just figure that whole thing out later.



june 15th is when i left cameron missouri

maybe sooner. i have no idea.

so it's been two months in texas.

these are strange times for me.

* * *

thinking back to when this all started. i'm doing things that i've been wanting to do, but i think that i'm doing them sooner than i wanted to.

i've been wanting to move out of my dad's house for a while. i guess i finally did, but i really think this was earlier than i wanted.

i think that if i took my time with things, i would have relocated to the kansas city area instead, went to UMKC, and then looked for a job, or career or whatever after graduation, in the Kansas City area.

i had the fucking money to do it.

* * * 

I think that i probably would have continued working two jobs for another year or two if i had my way with things. if i stayed in cameron, missouri. saved up more money and really did something cool.

* * *

let's think things through again. my first choice would have been that nothing changed for another two years. i would have kept working at the warehouse and at the hotel, living with my dad, and saving and investing my money. maybe i would have looked for another morning job that payed more than the hotel, and was more clerical or more of in an office setting, a desk job, or paperwork job or whatever.

my second choice would have been to go to graduate school at UMKC, get the MS in Finance, take a few classes in real estate finance, and project finance or something, a few classes in engineering, accounting, some other stuff, maybe math. a few art classes.

* * *

my neighbor tried to start a conversation with me right now. i shut the door. i'm not trying to be rude with the guy but i'm working on something, i'm kind of trying to get my shit together, my thoughts together or whatever, and his ass is distracting me.
 
* * *

I just need to put some money together.



Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 10:16 PM 

* * *

Tuesday, August 18, 2020
K indefinite hiatus 32
it would make sense to see if i can get my job back at the airport.

really. i'm still not sure why i'm in texas.

i wanted to see <Text Removed>, but if that's not going to happen, then that just one less reason to stick around.

i would like to go to college here, but if i don't get it, then it would probably make more sense to 

head back to missouri and see if i can renew my application or whatever.



if i can't get into college in texas, that's really also one less reason to stick around.



in terms of work. i just need to be able to tread water for the next 12 months.

at a minimum i just need to be able to tread water for 12 months.

obviously i'd like to do more than that, but in life, i'm not sure that i always get what i want.





Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 5:59 AM

* * *

Tuesday, August 18, 2020
indefinite hiatus 33
I can't believe it's already thursday. It felt like just a few days ago that i went on a roadtrip.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 2:48 PM

* * *

Tuesday, August 18, 2020
indefinite hiatus 34
I followed up with the passport stuff. I'm still not sure I'm going to need one but I figured that I may consider completing the process anyway.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 2:59 PM 

* * *

Tuesday, August 18, 2020
indefinite hiatus 35
i went for a walk around town. i passed by several used car dealerships. i applied for 1 job today, and it was a job in a lab.

 and this kind of interests me. the idea of working in a lab. there are other lab positions, but they seem not to pay too much.

they don't seem to pay very well. but i think i mentioned before that for the time being, that i only really need to tread water at the moment.

try something new i guess.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 4:48 PM 

* * *

Tuesday, August 18, 2020
indefinite hiatus 36
i went to this pizza place here in the neighborhood. i was going to go to jack in the box, but changed my mind at the last minute.

I'm applying for jobs closer to home. i would like to look more into this laboratory stuff. i applied for a few.

i have never used linkedin for finding a job. or at least not much.

there was this sales position with a company here in the dallas fort worth area where i connected with hiring manager via linkedin. it didn't exactly go anywhere.

I'm applying for one of these positions directly on the company website.

Whenever I'm applying for a job. I typically hammer and barrage the posts. I don't know what else to do really.

Supposing that application submissions are more tailored and targeted, what would that result in?

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 10:44 PM

* * *

Tuesday, August 18, 2020
indefinite hiatus 37
i don't know i'm still up typing crap. i'm in a weird mood. i guess. i thought about looking at my post history. like how many posts i wrote month to month over the last few years.

and i think that i wrote the most posts during the most difficult and tumultuous times of my life. i want to say that that's the case, but it might not totally be the case.

i want to say that the move from nevada to missouri was a really fucked up time in my life. it was a difficult move.

this move from missouri to texas. this was a strange move too.

* * *

Tuesday, August 18, 2020
indefinite hiatus 38
i'm trying to think of a series of events, or a sequence of events that happened recently.

so.

a while ago i started sending my receipts to myself, rather than to <Text Removed>. i'm not sure why i was sending her my receipts.

i guess the main reason was to show that i was actually in texas and not bullshitting about it.

then i get the reader comment saying, like saying something, like forget <Text Removed> or whatever, it irritated me somewhat because i was already kind of heading in that direction.

i ended up going on a weekend road trip around texas. i bought a few <Text Removed> name tags, and another braclet.

i thought about sending them to her, and then i thought about keeping them for myself. 

but i think that i might just mail them off to her.

but i kind of want to keep them.

i don't know what to do about that situation.

some of this stuff is actually kind of cool.

i actually do. have to kind of focus on getting my shit here together in texas.

i really like this silver bracelet. i really do.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 11:49 PM

* * *

Wednesday, August 19, 2020
indefinite hiatus 39
I had trouble falling asleep. I ate at the pizza buffet at night, but a few hours later i was hungry again. I ate at 9 PM. Around 4 AM i felt like eating again. I went to jack in the box. But they were closed. So i went to quik trip and the hot items werent ready. So i had a muffin. Then came back when the hot items were ready.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 4:58 AM 

* * *

Wednesday, August 19, 2020
indefinite hiatus 40
so what in shits name should i do right now? looking for a job. i think. there are a few paths that i can take, and i really have to think through what is the optimal path.

if i just need to tread water for the time being. if i just need to stay afloat or whatever, and i just need to make enough money to pay my bills for the time being.

then maybe i should look for a job that has some kind of career path or whatever.

i should have tried to do the program or whatever at UMKC. Instead I went on this bizarre adventure.

i did have to get away from my dad, and my family and all that.

so maybe this was actually an okay thing.

maybe this wasn't a totally bad idea.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 11:45 AM 

* * *

Wednesday, August 19, 2020
indefinite hiatus 41
i don't know what was up with me today. i went out to eat, and i guess cruise around and stuff. stupid. i spent way too much on lunch, and way too much on this tree for my patio. idiot. the only thing i bought that i actually needed was a few bottles of diet pepsi. and that was like 15 bucks.

well. i have to return to job hunting. i paid my rent for september.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 3:52 PM 

* * *

Wednesday, August 19, 2020
indefinite hiatus 42
i thought that i'd write another sonnet 
about a certain devil-voodoo-chick
who rules my mind and is always on it,
in my cranium i hear her tongue flick

sensibilities in my ear like: "move 
on idiot, i hardly remember
who the fuck you are, other than the smooth,
greasy, bald head of yours, and the embers

on the tips of those cigarettes you smoked
constantly like you were some kind of clit-
sucker." A few days ago I had stroked
my last paper letter, tossed in the slit

of a mailbox at a post office in
some small town: i hope it's not if, but when.

- for <Text Removed>

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 5:37 PM 

* * *

Wednesday, August 19, 2020
indefinite hiatus 43
do i really want to go to graduate school? there is a community college here in arlington, and i really don't mind taking classes just for enrichment, the issue is that, i also need something to show for the time and money that i spend in college, i might as well be enrolled in a formal program.

i don't know why i'm considering this graduate school crap again. i'm too old for this. but maybe not. i don't know.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 8:39 PM 

* * *

Thursday, August 20, 2020
indefinite hiatus 44
i went to my job at the airport, and i was going to talk to human resources about my work issues, and i guess the office wasn't open.

i thought i resigned already, but i figured, if there is a chance to get my job back, and stop looking for work, then maybe that is the best thing that i can do right now.

and then i drove there, and remembered what a nightmare the commute is.

maybe I should have paid for office space rather than an apartment. trying to optimize lifestyle flexibility can be just as difficult as trying to establish a more stable lifestyle.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:37 PM 

* * *

Thursday, August 20, 2020
indefinite hiatus 45
so there is an opportunity to work from home. it's kind of like a call center job, from home, i guess. i just don't know how good my internet connection is. i'll worry about that later. i was going to purchase a high speed internet plan from at&t, rather than just use my phone, but i guess that the service isn't available here in arlington. if i need that service, i guess i'll get it, but it isn't clear to me right now if i'm going to need it or not.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 4:35 PM 

* * *

Thursday, August 20, 2020
indefinite hiatus 46
i recieved an email from Google Play Music that i would eventually have to transfer my music files to YouTube Music. so i did, but i also wanted to download my music too, it didn't work, and i blew through all my tethering data in the process. what a waste. nightmare.

i have to work on this paperwork for the work-from-home job. i don't want to buy an internet connection or whatever. i don't want another fucking bill, and i really don't. i'm potentially skeptical that this neighborhood is the right place to work from home. sometimes it can be really fucking noisy. 

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 6:28 PM 

* * *

Thursday, August 20, 2020
indefinite hiatus 47
 i just bought another allocation of mobile hot spot data for my phone. i'm not going to buy an internet connection. i just don't see the point right now. i don't really game, and i really just use my laptop for documents really. i'll just watch how much data i use.

this means, really, that i won't be taking the work at home call center job. i just won't do it. i don't need any additional expenses right now. just not going to do it.

i'll keep looking for work here in arlington.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 6:51 PM 

* * *

Thursday, August 20, 2020
indefinite hiatus 48
So I'm thinking. This might be somewhat useless. But I may make a few job inquiries the old fashioned way.

I have to remember to complete the exit process for my job at the airport.

And i won't be taking the work from home job. 

I went to the pizza place tonight. I was a little bit silly with the young woman who works there, she doesn't speak English and makes kind of a point not to speak English. And i dont know if having been silly with her going to get me killed. Either by the sacred order of the <Text Removed>. Or the Honduran Mafia. I wasn't flirtatious. I was just silly.

There are a few open positions at hotels in arlington. Several of them are at the same hotel. Many of them are seasonal.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 11:50 PM

* * *

Friday, August 21, 2020
indefinite hiatus 49
After my shift at work. I went to jack in the box and had a few tacos. I went to the buffet for lunch. Not the pizza buffet but the asian buffet. Now im here at the movies.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 6:12 PM 

* * *

Friday, August 21, 2020
indefinite hiatus 50

these are
photographs of
plants that I bought that
eventually died, or that
i eventually sold.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:05 PM

* * *

Friday, August 21, 2020
indefinite hiatus 51
I need to figure out a way to dump photographs somewhere. I use facebook for this most of the time.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:11 PM

* * *

Saturday, August 22, 2020
indefinite hiatus 52
As soon ad i get home im going to take the best nap ever.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:29 AM

* * *

Sunday, August 23, 2020
indefinite hiatus 53
things are kind of looking up. i'm feeling a little better, a little less cynical and unhappy. i finally figured out a route to my job at the airport that makes sense to me, and i guess working reduces the randomness and uncertainty of my days and weeks.

I have an idea. I should set my alarm for a few hours after I get back home from work.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 2:07 PM 

* * *

Sunday, August 23, 2020
indefinite hiatus 54
I don't even know. What's on my mind. There is an opportunity to get a second job that would fit very nicely with my schedule. And I think I'll go for it.

I wanted to get something for <Text Removed>. But i have no idea where to send it. I don't know if she'd like that. And I'm kind of running on fumes financially. I still have those keychains from my roadtrip. And that beacelet. But I think I'll keep those. I think I'll send a post card. And leave it at that.

I'm actually afraid to look her up. And maybe I should try being more realistic about. Like. Life I guess. I haven't had a direct response. And maybe that is a response.

I placed some stock orders on robinhood and interactive brokers. I'm trying to round out my share counts. And that's pretty much all I'm doing there.
Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:24 PM 

* * *

Sunday, August 23, 2020
indefinite hiatus 55

I was just minding my own business listening to music and this kind of thing pops up. And it makes me think of. The <Text Removed>.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 9:40 PM 

* * *

Monday, August 24, 2020
indefinite hiatis 56
Birthday card
these are a number of
photographs that i took
of a birthday card
or a bunch of birthday cards
that eventually got me into
trouble.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:07 PM

* * *

Wednesday, August 26, 2020
indefinite hiatus 57
so what are some of the things that i'm thinking about right now?
the first thing is getting set up with a second job. the main issue with this idea is that i'm already extremely tired and fatigued after my work at the cargo docks of the airport. however, i noticed that i'm very energized after taking a nap of 3 - 4 hours. so work not be as exhausting as i think it is. 

it might be the heat, more than anything that makes me tired and fatigued. i don't operate equipment at the airport docks, so most of my times is spent actually lifting and moving things.

the second thing that's on my mind is getting set up with some kind of side-hustle. i don't really have anything specific in mind, but one is the courier / food delivery stuff. i had this idea of getting set up on viator and doing a kind of slice of life postmates experience. i thought that it might be fun.

but i really dislike driving. when i get off work at the airport, there is so much traffic on monday, and tuesday that i'm in a real state of annoyance as i drive home.

the other side-hustle idea is selling stuff online. i have to watch some videos on how to do this. the only time i ever did anything like this was in cameron, missouri, and i sold 2 pairs of shoes that i never wore on craigslist.

i did buy some silver coins online. one of them is from 1987, but i realized that i bought one that isn't certified and graded. it's obviously not a counterfeit coin, but being certified and graded gives collectors some kind of erection, and makes the coin more collectible. I think that i bought 4 coins total.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 12:33 AM

* * *

Wednesday, August 26, 2020
indefinite hiatus 58

fuck
these are
photographs
of my stamp
collection
and they are awesome

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:45 AM 

* * *

Wednesday, August 26, 2020
indefinite hiatus 59
I don't know why i bought those silver coins. I do silly stuff some times. I do impulsive things some times. I've been up all night. It might be my sleep cycle. I'm usually working at this hour.

* * *
these are digital photographs of. these are pictures
of some stamps i bought.
these are some of the most amazing things in the universe.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 4:47 AM 

* * *

Thursday, August 27, 2020
indefinite hiatus 60
I was annoyed that instagram doesnt feed into tumblr without me signing in each time. But i realized that im always signed into tumblr on the app, so i just have to open the app to post. It's easy.

* * *
i'm really fucking annoyed
by everything
and i really think that
everything is kind of useless. and really sucks.

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 12:25 AM 

* * *

Thursday, August 27, 2020
indefinite hiatus 61
I picked up an extra shift at the docks. Only one person from my regular shift and work team was there.

I'm a little bit dissapointed with the underperformance of my portfolio, but part of it may have been due to my living situation, that I've been withdrawing money, and not reinvesting dividends. But that will change and I'll be on track again.

* * *

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 12:27 AM 

* * *

Thursday, August 27, 2020
indefinite hiatus 62
when i was at the cargo docks, it started raining. several people mentioned the hurricane, and terrant county, where i live, has been declared a, i don't know, zone where the hurricane might have an impact.

i asked someone, the guy i normally work with, if he knew the name of the hurricane, and he didn't. i was browsing facebook and found out that it is named Hurricane Laura.

I think that one day there should be a Hurricane <Text Removed>

Posted by Chestnut + Hazel at 1:21 AM 

* * *

...
--- (08-17-2022) 09:48 PM

...

Painting the Patio & The Indefinite Hiatus, Complete and Unabridged











































something
happened
no one
knows what it was
but it was
something that
no one was
anticipating

...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

you're wondering what
that feeling is. it's sweat!
you've been working out
and now you are greasy.
or you've been humping
your lover like the two of
you haven't humped each
other in years. you asked
yourself what that greasy
feeling might be. and
the answer to that question.
is not butter. butter was not.
and is not the answer to your
question. and maybe you
remember that time you
covered your hair in melted
butter to alleviate the dryness
of your hair. remember. it
was not the answer to that
problem. it did not fix
anything you tried to fix.

...











This is the Third Time, September 3rd, 2022

im not an indolent moron, nor am i an insolent ingrate. im tired. thats it. i guess it's a smoking room.

i ended up smoking in the room anyway. dont worry. i didnt have any fucking food. so i ate the nearest thing available. 

anyway. i know it took me a while to return to dallas, but, i figured that time was not of the essence, since compound interest is the most powerful force in the universe.

however. i have to figure something out. i cant find my fucking calculator. i havent upgraded since 1989. i dont even know if i still have that thing. shit.

...

always. if i visit Kentucky. i invariably manage to take the route back to dallas that passes through nashville. or vice versa, like last month.

...

anyway.

kenneth larot yamat is currently subject to a nondisclosure agreement with an undisclosed party.

should any specific remarks be made about his complete inability to perform cunnilingus from monday 7:02 AM to monday 7:77 AM be discussed with anyone other than the appropriate parties invloved, he will be in violation of said non-disclosure agreement, the breach of which will require significant compensation in the form of additional specific performance of additional cunnilingus or additional performance based compensation in the form of substantially more intense cunnilingus for the remainder of the current artistic performance of completely unsatisfactory cunnilingus, requiring an additional cunnilingus session performed with all deliberate haste. Archived Content 09/20/2022 02:27 AM 

here is where things that were thought about
are now changed into new remaks.
something is offending the computer.

should he smell like anything other than pussy juice upon his return to his current residence, he will be subject to nothing less than multiple additional performances of additional cunnilingus. 

...

some young man made a defamatory remark a while ago. young. but thats the way it goes for kids his age. well. he left. so.

well. any chance he could. you know. he is.

...

i dont know whats up. but. i think someone out there is accomplishment blocking me. i tried to head back to texas so that i could attend class in person, however, as soon as i left indiana, there was a fucking monsoon, or fucking invasion from outer space consisting primarily of rain drops, which kept falling on my head. so i put on my hat.

i dont feel like drowning to death. right now. i asked the sheriff for directions, he said theres a hotel in the big city. i got there. and there was no hotel. i guess i should have asked the deputy, but either he didnt have a deputy, or the deputy was in invisible mode. so.

...

When I think about. I don't know what to say.

this is the third road trip in 3 months. i'm tired. and. im just so irritable.

i want to be nice, but, sometimes i end up in places i dont really want to be.

i really don't want to withdraw from school. i think that the discipline i'm pursuing is an important one.

i just don't know why i face the challenges that i face.

but this third road trip. really. even though it has been a nightmare, i don't think that the outcome will be as terrible as.

i just don't know what to say.

i really want to finish the program. im heading all the way back to texas. again.

...



...










































...







































...



what else is on my mind? Just facing quite a few challenges lately. It seems as though everywhere I go, someone or another tries to instigate a reaction. and it isn't always clear to me why.

...

June
July 
and 
August

were kind of a blur

same for the first part of September. I think that I went on four road trips this year. really long fucking road trips.

...

way passed it's expiration date.
Archived Content 09/25/2022 06:13 PM 
Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

I really don't want to wear hats anymore. I feel like they give me a headache. One thing I realize from being in Texas for several years now, is that, it's hot, and humid, and it's really easy to get sweaty and smelly.

...

I would like to think up a new series title, but I really can't come up with anything. I really can't think of anything.

...

This is where the orange juice 
sends the lemonade to the martini. 
this is where the mimosa and the 
mojito drink and eat and feel 
the ends of the earth.

...

okay, so here is the issue. currently. i might be able to get some work done, but i'm not entirely sure about that. it's fifty-fifty.

...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

it can be kind of difficult to get anything done around here. a total fucking nightmare. I doubt that any of us can really get anything done.


it's kind of such a nightmare. to get anything done/ it can



\

Placeholder, still h

...

im not an indolent moron, nor am i an insolent ingrate. im tired. thats it. i guess it's a smoking room.

i ended up smoking in the room anyway. dont worry. i didnt have any fucking food. so i ate the nearest thing available. 

anyway. i know it took me a while to return to dallas, but, i figured that time was not of the essence, since compound interest is the most powerful force in the universe.

however. i have to figure something out. i cant find my fucking calculator. i havent upgraded since 1989. i dont even know if i still have that thing. shit.

...

always. if i visit Kentucky. i invariably manage to take the route back to dallas that passes through nashville. or vice versa, like last month.

...

This is the Third Time, September 3rd, 2022

anyway.

kenneth larot yamat is currently subject to a nondisclosure agreement with an undisclosed party.

should any specific remarks be made about his complete inability to perform cunnilingus from monday 7:02 AM to monday 7:77 AM be discussed with anyone other than the appropriate parties invloved, he will be in violation of said non-disclosure agreement, the breach of which will require significant compensation in the form of additional specific performance of additional cunnilingus or additional performance based compensation in the form of substantially more intense cunnilingus for the remainder of the current artistic performance of completely unsatisfactory cunnilingus, requiring an additional cunnilingus session performed with all deliberate haste.

should he smell like anything other than pussy juice upon his return to his current residence, he will be subject to nothing less than multiple additional performances of additional cunnilingus. 

...

some young man made a defamatory remark a while ago. young. but thats the way it goes for kids his age. well. he left. so.

well. any chance he could. you know. he is.

...

i dont know whats up. but. i think someone out there is accomplishment blocking me. i tried to head back to texas so that i could attend class in person, however, as soon as i left indiana, there was a fucking monsoon, or fucking invasion from outer space consisting primarily of rain drops, which kept falling on my head. so i put on my hat.

i dont feel like drowning to death. right now. i asked the sheriff for directions, he said theres a hotel in the big city. i got there. and there was no hotel. i guess i should have asked the deputy, but either he didnt have a deputy, or the deputy was in invisible mode. so.

...

When I think about. I don't know what to say.

this is the third road trip in 3 months. i'm tired. and. im just so irritable.

i want to be nice, but, sometimes i end up in places i dont really want to be.

i really don't want to withdraw from school. i think that the discipline i'm pursuing is an important one.

i just don't know why i face the challenges that i face.

but this third road trip. really. even though it has been a nightmare, i don't think that the outcome will be as terrible as.

i just don't know what to say.

i really want to finish the program. im heading all the way back to texas. again.







...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...



...



Back Home, September 9th, 2022

Back Home, September 9th, 2022

i dont know what happened the other day. but i seemed to have irritated the bartender at this pizza place i went to. i really didn't understand what happened.

she seemed upset about something. she said that she wanted me to leave. so i paid and left.

a guy chased after me, and said: "No one here thinks that's funny."

and i still have no idea what i did, or what offense i committed.

i remember, i asked where the basil was, and a woman behind me said:

"the toppings are placed underneath the cheese here."

and i responded: "you're right about that, i've eaten here before."

and then i just sort of went at it with my pizza,

and then the bartender became upset.

my nails were dirty, really dirty, and i was eating two slices of pizza at a time. like a pig.

and maybe that was the thing, she was irritated that i was eating like a pig.

but.

i think that i was eating with a fork and knife first, and then
i started eating with my hands.

maybe i should just change my major or something.

i really fucking wanted to go to school, but, i don't really know what the hell to do.

...




...



...







...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

The sector analysis paper is due before the 
Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess 
I'll get started on that first.

i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.

when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.

...

I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?

...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating

lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.

nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so

never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at

11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.

there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...



...

what else is on my mind? Just facing quite a few challenges lately. It seems as though everywhere I go, someone or another tries to instigate a reaction. and it isn't always clear to me why.

...

June
July 
and 
August

were kind of a blur

same for the first part of September. I think that I went on four road trips this year. really long fucking road trips.

...

way passed it's expiration date.
Archived Content 09/25/2022 06:13 PM 
Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

I really don't want to wear hats anymore. I feel like they give me a headache. One thing I realize from being in Texas for several years now, is that, it's hot, and humid, and it's really easy to get sweaty and smelly.

...

I would like to think up a new series title, but I really can't come up with anything. I really can't think of anything.

...

This is where the orange juice 
sends the lemonade to the martini. 
this is where the mimosa and the 
mojito drink and eat and feel 
the ends of the earth.

...

okay, so here is the issue. currently. i might be able to get some work done, but i'm not entirely sure about that. it's fifty-fifty.

...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

it can be kind of difficult to get anything done around here. a total fucking nightmare. I doubt that any of us can really get anything done.


it's kind of such a nightmare. to get anything done/ it can



\

Placeholder, still h

...

im not an indolent moron, nor am i an insolent ingrate. im tired. thats it. i guess it's a smoking room.

i ended up smoking in the room anyway. dont worry. i didnt have any fucking food. so i ate the nearest thing available. 

anyway. i know it took me a while to return to dallas, but, i figured that time was not of the essence, since compound interest is the most powerful force in the universe.

however. i have to figure something out. i cant find my fucking calculator. i havent upgraded since 1989. i dont even know if i still have that thing. shit.

...

always. if i visit Kentucky. i invariably manage to take the route back to dallas that passes through nashville. or vice versa, like last month.

...

This is the Third Time, September 3rd, 2022

anyway.

kenneth larot yamat is currently subject to a nondisclosure agreement with an undisclosed party.

should any specific remarks be made about his complete inability to perform cunnilingus from monday 7:02 AM to monday 7:77 AM be discussed with anyone other than the appropriate parties invloved, he will be in violation of said non-disclosure agreement, the breach of which will require significant compensation in the form of additional specific performance of additional cunnilingus or additional performance based compensation in the form of substantially more intense cunnilingus for the remainder of the current artistic performance of completely unsatisfactory cunnilingus, requiring an additional cunnilingus session performed with all deliberate haste.

should he smell like anything other than pussy juice upon his return to his current residence, he will be subject to nothing less than multiple additional performances of additional cunnilingus. 

...

some young man made a defamatory remark a while ago. young. but thats the way it goes for kids his age. well. he left. so.

well. any chance he could. you know. he is.

...

i dont know whats up. but. i think someone out there is accomplishment blocking me. i tried to head back to texas so that i could attend class in person, however, as soon as i left indiana, there was a fucking monsoon, or fucking invasion from outer space consisting primarily of rain drops, which kept falling on my head. so i put on my hat.

i dont feel like drowning to death. right now. i asked the sheriff for directions, he said theres a hotel in the big city. i got there. and there was no hotel. i guess i should have asked the deputy, but either he didnt have a deputy, or the deputy was in invisible mode. so.

...

When I think about. I don't know what to say.

this is the third road trip in 3 months. i'm tired. and. im just so irritable.

i want to be nice, but, sometimes i end up in places i dont really want to be.

i really don't want to withdraw from school. i think that the discipline i'm pursuing is an important one.

i just don't know why i face the challenges that i face.

but this third road trip. really. even though it has been a nightmare, i don't think that the outcome will be as terrible as.

i just don't know what to say.

i really want to finish the program. im heading all the way back to texas. again.







...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...



...



Back Home, September 9th, 2022

Back Home, September 9th, 2022

i dont know what happened the other day. but i seemed to have irritated the bartender at this pizza place i went to. i really didn't understand what happened.

she seemed upset about something. she said that she wanted me to leave. so i paid and left.

a guy chased after me, and said: "No one here thinks that's funny."

and i still have no idea what i did, or what offense i committed.

i remember, i asked where the basil was, and a woman behind me said:

"the toppings are placed underneath the cheese here."

and i responded: "you're right about that, i've eaten here before."

and then i just sort of went at it with my pizza,

and then the bartender became upset.

my nails were dirty, really dirty, and i was eating two slices of pizza at a time. like a pig.

and maybe that was the thing, she was irritated that i was eating like a pig.

but.

i think that i was eating with a fork and knife first, and then
i started eating with my hands.

maybe i should just change my major or something.

i really fucking wanted to go to school, but, i don't really know what the hell to do.

...




...



...







...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

The sector analysis paper is due before the 
Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess 
I'll get started on that first.

i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.

when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.

...

I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?

...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating

lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.

nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so

never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at

11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.

there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...



Notes Taken During My First Semester at the University of Texas at Arlington

...

Annotation to Notes from Arlington # 65

This was written during my June Road trip. It's September 25th, 2022, and I'm back in Tennessee. 

...

Archived Content 09/25/2022 06:13 PM 

...

i stayed in Somerville tn for a night. im in the next town over, and i already feel like just staying here.

...

today is sunday. my thinking is that the roads should be empty, and it would be a good idea to keep driving.

...

i cant really go back to texas anyway. but i dont really know where to go.

...

maybe it was just time to leave texas. i had been there for 2 years. maybe it was just time for me to go. i really don't know what to do about college though.

...

i think that im just going to relocate. 
i'm on the Arkansas side of Memphis. 
i honestly don't know where the hell to go.

Everywhere is a fucking nightmare.
the nightmare never ends.
I really can't go back to Texas.

I have to leave texas. I really do.
I don't really know where to go, though.
this was a fabulous waste of money.

I threw away as much of my stuff as I could.
and threw away additional stuff on my way here.

I'll probably throw away 
additional stuff here 
and there
on my way to where 
ever the hell I end up.

i don't really know where 
the fuck to go at
this point.

I'm facing one frustration after another.

...

I'm really having a hard time getting my business in a more formalized state. I have the various things that I need to do on my calendar, but, sometimes there is no telling if I will get anything done or not, or if I'll get distracted by this or that issue, or, you know, who knows what will happen. I'm still facing a number of different challenges. and stuff. You know, like this and that stuff.

...

Class Notes Starting September 14th, 2022

one thing that I often face that impedes my ability to get anything done is the avalanche of emails that I have to deal with, or that fall into my mail box. I obviously don't read them all, but I usually scan them to see if they contain anything important.

...

Thinking. I'm going to hold off on looking for work right now. or looking for an internship or anything like that.

I really should just be focusing on school right now.


...

what else is on my mind? Just facing quite a few challenges lately. It seems as though everywhere I go, someone or another tries to instigate a reaction. and it isn't always clear to me why.

...

June
July 
and 
August

were kind of a blur

same for the first part of September. I think that I went on four road trips this year. really long fucking road trips.

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 68

I better not buy anything that I don't need. I thought about buying a few wallets online, but I'm going to hold off on that for now.

Annotation to Notes from Arlington, Texas # 68

I really spent way too much money during these last few months. I really need to make my best effort to stay in school, otherwise I'm more or less fucked.

and again.

I really don't know how I'll be able to balance working and going to college at the same time. This might be a pain in the neck, but I also might be able to make this happen. Who knows.

...

















...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

I really don't want to wear hats anymore. I feel like they give me a headache. One thing I realize from being in Texas for several years now, is that, it's hot, and humid, and it's really easy to get sweaty and smelly.

...

I would like to think up a new series title, but I really can't come up with anything. I really can't think of anything.

...

This is where the orange juice 
sends the lemonade to the martini. 
this is where the mimosa and the 
mojito drink and eat and feel 
the ends of the earth.

...

okay, so here is the issue. currently. i might be able to get some work done, but i'm not entirely sure about that. it's fifty-fifty.

...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

it can be kind of difficult to get anything done around here. a total fucking nightmare. I doubt that any of us can really get anything done.


it's kind of such a nightmare. to get anything done/ it can



\

Placeholder, still h

...

im not an indolent moron, nor am i an insolent ingrate. im tired. thats it. i guess it's a smoking room.

i ended up smoking in the room anyway. dont worry. i didnt have any fucking food. so i ate the nearest thing available. 

anyway. i know it took me a while to return to dallas, but, i figured that time was not of the essence, since compound interest is the most powerful force in the universe.

however. i have to figure something out. i cant find my fucking calculator. i havent upgraded since 1989. i dont even know if i still have that thing. shit.

...

always. if i visit Kentucky. i invariably manage to take the route back to dallas that passes through nashville. or vice versa, like last month.

...

This is the Third Time, September 3rd, 2022

anyway.

kenneth larot yamat is currently subject to a nondisclosure agreement with an undisclosed party.

should any specific remarks be made about his complete inability to perform cunnilingus from monday 7:02 AM to monday 7:77 AM be discussed with anyone other than the appropriate parties invloved, he will be in violation of said non-disclosure agreement, the breach of which will require significant compensation in the form of additional specific performance of additional cunnilingus or additional performance based compensation in the form of substantially more intense cunnilingus for the remainder of the current artistic performance of completely unsatisfactory cunnilingus, requiring an additional cunnilingus session performed with all deliberate haste.

should he smell like anything other than pussy juice upon his return to his current residence, he will be subject to nothing less than multiple additional performances of additional cunnilingus. 

...

some young man made a defamatory remark a while ago. young. but thats the way it goes for kids his age. well. he left. so.

well. any chance he could. you know. he is.

...

i dont know whats up. but. i think someone out there is accomplishment blocking me. i tried to head back to texas so that i could attend class in person, however, as soon as i left indiana, there was a fucking monsoon, or fucking invasion from outer space consisting primarily of rain drops, which kept falling on my head. so i put on my hat.

i dont feel like drowning to death. right now. i asked the sheriff for directions, he said theres a hotel in the big city. i got there. and there was no hotel. i guess i should have asked the deputy, but either he didnt have a deputy, or the deputy was in invisible mode. so.

...

When I think about. I don't know what to say.

this is the third road trip in 3 months. i'm tired. and. im just so irritable.

i want to be nice, but, sometimes i end up in places i dont really want to be.

i really don't want to withdraw from school. i think that the discipline i'm pursuing is an important one.

i just don't know why i face the challenges that i face.

but this third road trip. really. even though it has been a nightmare, i don't think that the outcome will be as terrible as.

i just don't know what to say.

i really want to finish the program. im heading all the way back to texas. again.







...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...



...



Back Home, September 9th, 2022

Back Home, September 9th, 2022

i dont know what happened the other day. but i seemed to have irritated the bartender at this pizza place i went to. i really didn't understand what happened.

she seemed upset about something. she said that she wanted me to leave. so i paid and left.

a guy chased after me, and said: "No one here thinks that's funny."

and i still have no idea what i did, or what offense i committed.

i remember, i asked where the basil was, and a woman behind me said:

"the toppings are placed underneath the cheese here."

and i responded: "you're right about that, i've eaten here before."

and then i just sort of went at it with my pizza,

and then the bartender became upset.

my nails were dirty, really dirty, and i was eating two slices of pizza at a time. like a pig.

and maybe that was the thing, she was irritated that i was eating like a pig.

but.

i think that i was eating with a fork and knife first, and then
i started eating with my hands.

maybe i should just change my major or something.

i really fucking wanted to go to school, but, i don't really know what the hell to do.

...




...



...

Notes, Thoughts, and Reflections While Using the Bloomberg Terminal 





...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...

Class Notes Starting September 14th, 2022

one thing that I often face that impedes my ability to get anything done is the avalanche of emails that I have to deal with, or that fall into my mail box. I obviously don't read them all, but I usually scan them to see if they contain anything important.

...

Thinking. I'm going to hold off on looking for work right now. or looking for an internship or anything like that.

I really should just be focusing on school right now.


...

what else is on my mind? Just facing quite a few challenges lately. It seems as though everywhere I go, someone or another tries to instigate a reaction. and it isn't always clear to me why.

...

June
July 
and 
August

were kind of a blur

same for the first part of September. I think that I went on four road trips this year. really long fucking road trips.



...

















...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

I really don't want to wear hats anymore. I feel like they give me a headache. One thing I realize from being in Texas for several years now, is that, it's hot, and humid, and it's really easy to get sweaty and smelly.

...

I would like to think up a new series title, but I really can't come up with anything. I really can't think of anything.

...

This is where the orange juice 
sends the lemonade to the martini. 
this is where the mimosa and the 
mojito drink and eat and feel 
the ends of the earth.

...

okay, so here is the issue. currently. i might be able to get some work done, but i'm not entirely sure about that. it's fifty-fifty.

...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

it can be kind of difficult to get anything done around here. a total fucking nightmare. I doubt that any of us can really get anything done.


it's kind of such a nightmare. to get anything done/ it can



\

Placeholder, still h

...

im not an indolent moron, nor am i an insolent ingrate. im tired. thats it. i guess it's a smoking room.

i ended up smoking in the room anyway. dont worry. i didnt have any fucking food. so i ate the nearest thing available. 

anyway. i know it took me a while to return to dallas, but, i figured that time was not of the essence, since compound interest is the most powerful force in the universe.

however. i have to figure something out. i cant find my fucking calculator. i havent upgraded since 1989. i dont even know if i still have that thing. shit.

...

always. if i visit Kentucky. i invariably manage to take the route back to dallas that passes through nashville. or vice versa, like last month.

...

This is the Third Time, September 3rd, 2022

anyway.

kenneth larot yamat is currently subject to a nondisclosure agreement with an undisclosed party.

should any specific remarks be made about his complete inability to perform cunnilingus from monday 7:02 AM to monday 7:77 AM be discussed with anyone other than the appropriate parties invloved, he will be in violation of said non-disclosure agreement, the breach of which will require significant compensation in the form of additional specific performance of additional cunnilingus or additional performance based compensation in the form of substantially more intense cunnilingus for the remainder of the current artistic performance of completely unsatisfactory cunnilingus, requiring an additional cunnilingus session performed with all deliberate haste.

should he smell like anything other than pussy juice upon his return to his current residence, he will be subject to nothing less than multiple additional performances of additional cunnilingus. 

...

some young man made a defamatory remark a while ago. young. but thats the way it goes for kids his age. well. he left. so.

well. any chance he could. you know. he is.

...

i dont know whats up. but. i think someone out there is accomplishment blocking me. i tried to head back to texas so that i could attend class in person, however, as soon as i left indiana, there was a fucking monsoon, or fucking invasion from outer space consisting primarily of rain drops, which kept falling on my head. so i put on my hat.

i dont feel like drowning to death. right now. i asked the sheriff for directions, he said theres a hotel in the big city. i got there. and there was no hotel. i guess i should have asked the deputy, but either he didnt have a deputy, or the deputy was in invisible mode. so.

...

When I think about. I don't know what to say.

this is the third road trip in 3 months. i'm tired. and. im just so irritable.

i want to be nice, but, sometimes i end up in places i dont really want to be.

i really don't want to withdraw from school. i think that the discipline i'm pursuing is an important one.

i just don't know why i face the challenges that i face.

but this third road trip. really. even though it has been a nightmare, i don't think that the outcome will be as terrible as.

i just don't know what to say.

i really want to finish the program. im heading all the way back to texas. again.







...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...



...



Back Home, September 9th, 2022

Back Home, September 9th, 2022

i dont know what happened the other day. but i seemed to have irritated the bartender at this pizza place i went to. i really didn't understand what happened.

she seemed upset about something. she said that she wanted me to leave. so i paid and left.

a guy chased after me, and said: "No one here thinks that's funny."

and i still have no idea what i did, or what offense i committed.

i remember, i asked where the basil was, and a woman behind me said:

"the toppings are placed underneath the cheese here."

and i responded: "you're right about that, i've eaten here before."

and then i just sort of went at it with my pizza,

and then the bartender became upset.

my nails were dirty, really dirty, and i was eating two slices of pizza at a time. like a pig.

and maybe that was the thing, she was irritated that i was eating like a pig.

but.

i think that i was eating with a fork and knife first, and then
i started eating with my hands.

maybe i should just change my major or something.

i really fucking wanted to go to school, but, i don't really know what the hell to do.

...




...



...

Notes, Thoughts, and Reflections While Using the Bloomberg Terminal 





...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 67

I should. well.

...

Annotation to Notes from Arlington, Texas # 67

I don't remember what I was going through when I wrote this particular note. Maybe I was in a state of confusion or something. or Maybe I was thinking about something else. I don't really know.

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 66

That was a nightmare. I went on this strange road-trip, crossing nearly a jillion states, I ended up in the psychiatric hospital on a court ordered mental health hold. Something similar to a 51-50 in California. and now I'm back home.

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 66

...

What is the deal right now. This is an annotation to Notes from Arlington, Texas # 66. I'm thinking. This was a note from a while ago. I think this was after the June Road Trip. These road trips were interesting. A nightmare, but interesting as well.

...

September 20th, 2022

51.00 + 65.00

"The brunette bartender at the Restaurant on Collins Boulevard"


her name is katie, and i distinctly remember her having 

blonde hair the last time i came here

this time she berates me for my behavior the last time

i came here, so are 

you going to sit at a booth the next time

you get irritated, 

or are you going to stay where you are?

i tell her i'll stay where I am,

still minutes later. no food. i'm really hungry.

starving. even

she has knockers and she's on collins

i order a bicardi

katie berates me for not having


for having taken a seat elsewhere the last time I was here

i order a tray of 6 naked wings,

but when they arrive they are drenched in
a sweet red sauce?
what is this?

what could this be?
it's sauce!

attitude.
she has an attitude.

it's not that i'm lacking in gratitude.
i'm hungry.

unlike the last time i was here I ate more than
enough.

and you still haven't visted the location in Dallas

the location in dallas is where the largest location is
really. you won't believe how amazing it is.
the largest in the united states, maybe even the world!

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 65

06/15/2022 08:32 PM

...

I'm in fucking Nashville.

* * *

it's a constant recalibration of what i need to do. filing for unemployment is a total waste of time. filing an unemployment insurance claim is a total waste of time. my claim never gets approved. nightmare. so what the hell do i do?

* * *

There is an issue of. i need to have enough student loan money to cover living expenses. i really don't want to resort to taking out private fucking student loans.

* * *

this is a nightmare. i think that i'll either. i think that i'll file the unemployment claim. and the disability claim.

i'm looking at my electricity bill. 55 fucking kilowatt hours! 10 dollars and 55 fucking cents. i'm home all the time now. so. i just have to figure out what the hell to do over the next few. hell. there really is no telling how long this is going to take. to find work.

if i do have to relocate. yeah. i don't really know.

* * *

i don't know if i should file an additional unemployment claim or what.

* * *

large butts. are part of the large butt industrial complex. small butts. are part of the small butt industrial complex. there are different industries. and there are different industrial complexes. that's just more or less the way that it is. that is more or less the way that it goes. there is something that i was thinking about.

* * *

sometimes designs put us at odds with one another. sometimes designs intentionally put us at odds with one another. i get that quiet spaces are needed. i remember. i found it difficult to accept a work from home position. because. me neighborhood was just too noisy at the time. it was hard to accept calls. it was hard to concentrate on work. it was hard to focus. sometimes it can be hard to focus. sometimes it can be hard to get things done when it's noisy. does it really enhance your concentration. well. who know. i do. i really do need to make a living. and. right now. i just don't think that i can do that. 

i think. it's a conspiracy on the part of the sell things industrial complex. i think that it's part of the industrial goods industrial complex. you have a problem. and we have the solution. i do not want all old things. i want all new things. i don't want a single new thing. i want all old things. i do not want anything other than high prices antiques that are sold by the most respectable antique dealers. and that's the only thing that i want. antiques. antiques. respectable. respectable. 

i remember. there were a few times when i worked in an office setting. and. it was noisy. and. in those cases. i was the noisy one.

* * *

i'm trying to compile my posts for Letters from Sanford Street. and this is the kind of thing that will take some time. what else was i trying to do? well. there was something that i needed to work on, but for some reason. it seems to have slipped my mind. i don't know how to deal with this kind of thing. it's possible that. he might just be trying to get an interview done or something. i have no idea. but he just left. and now this is easier.

i get. i understand that we don't always have our own private work spaces. we don't all have our own offices. and. these quite spaces are really needed. i get that.

part of the reason that i do conduct business. i do work from home when as far as work pertains to Chestnut + Hazel. is because i really don't have money for an office. not right now. any maybe the work from home thing does come with opportunities that can change things.

i think about the people who started businesses in their dorm room. or people who started businesses in their garage.

* * *

it doesn't take long for quiet spaces to become loud spaces. quiet spaces. everyone needs them. i think this guy is from the walking advertisement industrial complex.

* * *

i have to look for something. i have to look for a position. not because i need the money, but because it's relevant to what i want to accomplish. but the only think i really want to accomplish is to have more money.

* * *

i liquidated nearly everything in my robinhood account. i don't think that i would have ever done that. really. i thought that i would just be able to hold down a job. but i actually can't. i can't hold down a job. everyone picks on me. and this is true no matter where i work.

i have to think about what my next moves are. because this is a nightmare. i don't know if i'll be able to find work. or what. or what kind of work or employment i should be looking for.

* * *

alright. well I guess that's over. what a total nightmare. but right now. i really don't know what to do for work.

* * *

it wasn't too far back that i really felt that things were getting better. but they continue to be a disaster. what the hell do i need to do.

* * *

These last few days have been extremely challenging for me. Everything feels like a kind of sensation overload, and I have to look for work, again.

* * *


Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
9m
make a reference to the original. make an attribution. and make a contribution by making a slight change.

think about the original sin of mankind. make a slight change. then make a contribution of your own. you'll have fun. but this assertion is not guaranteed.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
12m
have you ever tasted how so many things taste similar to one another. this one iPhone had a very similar taste to this generic smart phone i was licking earlier. can you taste the difference? i couldn't! i'm embarrassed and i feel like i have no taste.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
14m
maybe we can collect all of the artifacts that the people all over the universe are collecting. if others collect them. then we too should collect them. in many ways. this is a good thing. in other ways. it's something other than a good thing.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
15m
there is an ongoing twitter conflict between the freudians and the hubbardians. this sort of thing will never end. is it all in your mind. or is it all in your head. this debate will never end.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
16m
orange juice is made from squeezed oranges. lemonade is made from squeeze lemons.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
there really is no such thing as a free lunch. but these tweet is free. 

eat my tweet.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
i met a man from an antique land who said. that upon his ball sack. these cock rings appear.

i told him it's wrong to use a cock ring for his ball sack. it's better to use a ball ring.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
what color are your balls. well. you wouldn't know unless you opened your scrotum and checked.

and don't think you can trick me by painting your balls. or dying them red. neptune is an even bluer big ball with a ball ring.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
sputnik was the first man made ball of steel to circle an even greener. and even bluer ball. the earth is a big blue ball.

think of the white ball. and think of the red ball. tonight. we dine at the pub. tonight we play pool.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
balls. inside of an even bigger. translucent ball. and your balls are numbered. 

because we're playing bingo. what did you think we were doing.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
balls. inside of a netted sack.

i think. therefore. that these are onions.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
and on that pedestal. massive stone balls appear.

and on those pedestals. these massive stone balls appear.

do they have names. I don't think they do.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
i think. i dont really know. spam. maybe. ham. maybe. green apples and spam. what do you think.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
large balls. stone balls. concrete spheres mounted on cubes outside of city hall.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
everything is a headache. and everything else is a nightmare.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
but everything is kind of uncertain. onions and maybe some kind of sauce.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
pencils and pens and notebooks. a laptop a tablet. maybe a new phone.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
pencils and pens and notebooks. a laptop a tablet. maybe a new phone.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
... well. i guess she's off the market now. and i guess its no skin off my cock.

#megamatzoballs
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
... she said something about the beach and a fish net g string and a large otter. and sand. it gets everywhere. even a woman's crotch. and even a one as unbelievably tight as it gets.

#megamatzoballs
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
well. um. if you want to know the truth. im actually part of the team investigating you know who. and. it. um. it honestly felt like she had sand in her crotch. fine grain sand. gently abrasive. good. but still. she had a sand crotch.

#megamatzoballs

Annotation to Notes from Arlington # 65

This was written during my June Road trip


Well, since the relocation issue is settled, my figuring is that I might as well make a road trip out of my relocation back to Las Vegas.




...

I'm moving back in with my mother. I'm not going to hang out or set up in Tennessee, I'll probably reapply at UNLV when I get there, and find work.

...

I'm a coin laundry in Hohenwald, Tennessee, drying my clothes. I threw away 2 boxes of, I guess, just stuff, I'm continuing toward Nashville.

...

Archived Content 10/12/2022 07:38 PM

...

I have a little over an hour before I should be checking out of this motel, I really don't have any money right now for another day. On the one hand there's this idea that the easiest thing to do would be to head back to Texas, I wouldn't have to go through this whole relocation headache yet again. I dropped all of my classes at UTA, and this is bad, of course, but it might be forgivable. On the other hand, I have a feeling that there's some reason for all of this traveling and shit that I've been doing lately, I really should be leaving Texas, but where the hell do I go? This area is just fine for finding work and setting up my business, and it's a kind of low cost of living area, I think. The issue with staying here is that when I think about relocating, I start thinking that I can really relocate to pretty much anywhere. Or to put it another way, when I think about relocating, I could probably find something that's slightly more ideal than this particular place.

...

So what are my plans now? I wouldn't mind hanging out here in Somerville, but, I eventually have to go back to school. I have to be in a city where I can find work, transfer into a new college, somewhere that's somewhat inexpensive, and that I can set up my business. I'm somewhat skeptical that I'll be able to transfer to a new college, given that I basically didn't accomplish anything during my first semester at UTA. This was a fucking disaster.

I found it hard to get anything done. The reason I wanted to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource for the course was because the Bloomberg Market Concepts Certification course was part of the Student Managed Investment Fund's requirements. I found the Bloomberg Terminal kind of complex to use, at first, but once I got the hang of it, I found it extremely useful.

Most of the analytical crap you would do in Excel, or in some other is stuff you can do in the Bloomberg Terminal by pressing the correct button, or, if you have some other formula or algorithm that you're working with, you can just plug it into the Bloomberg Terminal. There seemed to be this obsession with exporting data from the Bloomberg Terminal to work with it in Excel or some other software program to do some kind of analytical shit, but, it just seemed like an unnecessary extra step.

Anyway, I dropped my classes, and I'll see about getting into a college, or transferring into a college somewhere in Tennessee. It's 3:56 AM and I'm really fucking hungry, luckily for me, nothing is fucking open. I'm thinking that, okay. so. I can't really head back to Texas for whatever various reasons that prevent me from heading back there. I can't go back, and that's that.

I'm trying to think about what the hell went wrong there. Well, I guess I owe a bunch of money and didn't even so much as finish my classes.

...

Postcards from Somerville, Tennessee 38068 

...

I don't completely remember what set me off on that First road trip in June, or the one in February, or any of these road trips. Maybe I was thinking about relocating. I don't remember. I think that I'm going to relocate this time, but what the hell am I going to do for work? How the hell do I get set up in a new town? I need to find work, and an apartment. I minute ago I was thinking about heading back to Texas, but I really can't head back to Texas.

I'm thinking.

...

Notes Taken During My First Semester at the University of Texas at Arlington

...

Annotation to Notes from Arlington # 65

This was written during my June Road trip. It's September 25th, 2022, and I'm back in Tennessee. 

...

i stayed in Somerville tn for a night. im in the next town over, and i already feel like just staying here.

...

today is sunday. my thinking is that the roads should be empty, and it would be a good idea to keep driving.

...

i cant really go back to texas anyway. but i dont really know where to go.

...

maybe it was just time to leave texas. i had been there for 2 years. maybe it was just time for me to go. i really don't know what to do about college though.

...

i think that im just going to relocate. 
i'm on the Arkansas side of Memphis. 
i honestly don't know where the hell to go.

Everywhere is a fucking nightmare.
the nightmare never ends.
I really can't go back to Texas.

I have to leave texas. I really do.
I don't really know where to go, though.
this was a fabulous waste of money.

I threw away as much of my stuff as I could.
and threw away additional stuff on my way here.

I'll probably throw away 
additional stuff here 
and there
on my way to where 
ever the hell I end up.

i don't really know where 
the fuck to go at
this point.

I'm facing one frustration after another.

...

I'm really having a hard time getting my business in a more formalized state. I have the various things that I need to do on my calendar, but, sometimes there is no telling if I will get anything done or not, or if I'll get distracted by this or that issue, or, you know, who knows what will happen. I'm still facing a number of different challenges. and stuff. You know, like this and that stuff.

...

Class Notes Starting September 14th, 2022

one thing that I often face that impedes my ability to get anything done is the avalanche of emails that I have to deal with, or that fall into my mail box. I obviously don't read them all, but I usually scan them to see if they contain anything important.

...

Thinking. I'm going to hold off on looking for work right now. or looking for an internship or anything like that.

I really should just be focusing on school right now.


...

what else is on my mind? Just facing quite a few challenges lately. It seems as though everywhere I go, someone or another tries to instigate a reaction. and it isn't always clear to me why.

...

June
July 
and 
August

were kind of a blur

same for the first part of September. I think that I went on four road trips this year. really long fucking road trips.

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 68

I better not buy anything that I don't need. I thought about buying a few wallets online, but I'm going to hold off on that for now.

Annotation to Notes from Arlington, Texas # 68

I really spent way too much money during these last few months. I really need to make my best effort to stay in school, otherwise I'm more or less fucked.

and again.

I really don't know how I'll be able to balance working and going to college at the same time. This might be a pain in the neck, but I also might be able to make this happen. Who knows.

...

















...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

I really don't want to wear hats anymore. I feel like they give me a headache. One thing I realize from being in Texas for several years now, is that, it's hot, and humid, and it's really easy to get sweaty and smelly.

...

I would like to think up a new series title, but I really can't come up with anything. I really can't think of anything.

...

This is where the orange juice 
sends the lemonade to the martini. 
this is where the mimosa and the 
mojito drink and eat and feel 
the ends of the earth.

...

okay, so here is the issue. currently. i might be able to get some work done, but i'm not entirely sure about that. it's fifty-fifty.

...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

it can be kind of difficult to get anything done around here. a total fucking nightmare. I doubt that any of us can really get anything done.


it's kind of such a nightmare. to get anything done/ it can



\

Placeholder, still h

...

im not an indolent moron, nor am i an insolent ingrate. im tired. thats it. i guess it's a smoking room.

i ended up smoking in the room anyway. dont worry. i didnt have any fucking food. so i ate the nearest thing available. 

anyway. i know it took me a while to return to dallas, but, i figured that time was not of the essence, since compound interest is the most powerful force in the universe.

however. i have to figure something out. i cant find my fucking calculator. i havent upgraded since 1989. i dont even know if i still have that thing. shit.

...

always. if i visit Kentucky. i invariably manage to take the route back to dallas that passes through nashville. or vice versa, like last month.

...

This is the Third Time, September 3rd, 2022

anyway.

kenneth larot yamat is currently subject to a nondisclosure agreement with an undisclosed party.

should any specific remarks be made about his complete inability to perform cunnilingus from monday 7:02 AM to monday 7:77 AM be discussed with anyone other than the appropriate parties invloved, he will be in violation of said non-disclosure agreement, the breach of which will require significant compensation in the form of additional specific performance of additional cunnilingus or additional performance based compensation in the form of substantially more intense cunnilingus for the remainder of the current artistic performance of completely unsatisfactory cunnilingus, requiring an additional cunnilingus session performed with all deliberate haste.

should he smell like anything other than pussy juice upon his return to his current residence, he will be subject to nothing less than multiple additional performances of additional cunnilingus. 

...

some young man made a defamatory remark a while ago. young. but thats the way it goes for kids his age. well. he left. so.

well. any chance he could. you know. he is.

...

i dont know whats up. but. i think someone out there is accomplishment blocking me. i tried to head back to texas so that i could attend class in person, however, as soon as i left indiana, there was a fucking monsoon, or fucking invasion from outer space consisting primarily of rain drops, which kept falling on my head. so i put on my hat.

i dont feel like drowning to death. right now. i asked the sheriff for directions, he said theres a hotel in the big city. i got there. and there was no hotel. i guess i should have asked the deputy, but either he didnt have a deputy, or the deputy was in invisible mode. so.

...

When I think about. I don't know what to say.

this is the third road trip in 3 months. i'm tired. and. im just so irritable.

i want to be nice, but, sometimes i end up in places i dont really want to be.

i really don't want to withdraw from school. i think that the discipline i'm pursuing is an important one.

i just don't know why i face the challenges that i face.

but this third road trip. really. even though it has been a nightmare, i don't think that the outcome will be as terrible as.

i just don't know what to say.

i really want to finish the program. im heading all the way back to texas. again.







...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...



...



Back Home, September 9th, 2022

Back Home, September 9th, 2022

i dont know what happened the other day. but i seemed to have irritated the bartender at this pizza place i went to. i really didn't understand what happened.

she seemed upset about something. she said that she wanted me to leave. so i paid and left.

a guy chased after me, and said: "No one here thinks that's funny."

and i still have no idea what i did, or what offense i committed.

i remember, i asked where the basil was, and a woman behind me said:

"the toppings are placed underneath the cheese here."

and i responded: "you're right about that, i've eaten here before."

and then i just sort of went at it with my pizza,

and then the bartender became upset.

my nails were dirty, really dirty, and i was eating two slices of pizza at a time. like a pig.

and maybe that was the thing, she was irritated that i was eating like a pig.

but.

i think that i was eating with a fork and knife first, and then
i started eating with my hands.

maybe i should just change my major or something.

i really fucking wanted to go to school, but, i don't really know what the hell to do.

...




...



...

Notes, Thoughts, and Reflections While Using the Bloomberg Terminal 





...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...

Class Notes Starting September 14th, 2022

one thing that I often face that impedes my ability to get anything done is the avalanche of emails that I have to deal with, or that fall into my mail box. I obviously don't read them all, but I usually scan them to see if they contain anything important.

...

Thinking. I'm going to hold off on looking for work right now. or looking for an internship or anything like that.

I really should just be focusing on school right now.


...

what else is on my mind? Just facing quite a few challenges lately. It seems as though everywhere I go, someone or another tries to instigate a reaction. and it isn't always clear to me why.

...

June
July 
and 
August

were kind of a blur

same for the first part of September. I think that I went on four road trips this year. really long fucking road trips.



...

















...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

I really don't want to wear hats anymore. I feel like they give me a headache. One thing I realize from being in Texas for several years now, is that, it's hot, and humid, and it's really easy to get sweaty and smelly.

...

I would like to think up a new series title, but I really can't come up with anything. I really can't think of anything.

...

This is where the orange juice 
sends the lemonade to the martini. 
this is where the mimosa and the 
mojito drink and eat and feel 
the ends of the earth.

...

okay, so here is the issue. currently. i might be able to get some work done, but i'm not entirely sure about that. it's fifty-fifty.

...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

it can be kind of difficult to get anything done around here. a total fucking nightmare. I doubt that any of us can really get anything done.


it's kind of such a nightmare. to get anything done/ it can



\

Placeholder, still h

...

im not an indolent moron, nor am i an insolent ingrate. im tired. thats it. i guess it's a smoking room.

i ended up smoking in the room anyway. dont worry. i didnt have any fucking food. so i ate the nearest thing available. 

anyway. i know it took me a while to return to dallas, but, i figured that time was not of the essence, since compound interest is the most powerful force in the universe.

however. i have to figure something out. i cant find my fucking calculator. i havent upgraded since 1989. i dont even know if i still have that thing. shit.

...

always. if i visit Kentucky. i invariably manage to take the route back to dallas that passes through nashville. or vice versa, like last month.

...

This is the Third Time, September 3rd, 2022

anyway.

kenneth larot yamat is currently subject to a nondisclosure agreement with an undisclosed party.

should any specific remarks be made about his complete inability to perform cunnilingus from monday 7:02 AM to monday 7:77 AM be discussed with anyone other than the appropriate parties invloved, he will be in violation of said non-disclosure agreement, the breach of which will require significant compensation in the form of additional specific performance of additional cunnilingus or additional performance based compensation in the form of substantially more intense cunnilingus for the remainder of the current artistic performance of completely unsatisfactory cunnilingus, requiring an additional cunnilingus session performed with all deliberate haste.

should he smell like anything other than pussy juice upon his return to his current residence, he will be subject to nothing less than multiple additional performances of additional cunnilingus. 

...

some young man made a defamatory remark a while ago. young. but thats the way it goes for kids his age. well. he left. so.

well. any chance he could. you know. he is.

...

i dont know whats up. but. i think someone out there is accomplishment blocking me. i tried to head back to texas so that i could attend class in person, however, as soon as i left indiana, there was a fucking monsoon, or fucking invasion from outer space consisting primarily of rain drops, which kept falling on my head. so i put on my hat.

i dont feel like drowning to death. right now. i asked the sheriff for directions, he said theres a hotel in the big city. i got there. and there was no hotel. i guess i should have asked the deputy, but either he didnt have a deputy, or the deputy was in invisible mode. so.

...

When I think about. I don't know what to say.

this is the third road trip in 3 months. i'm tired. and. im just so irritable.

i want to be nice, but, sometimes i end up in places i dont really want to be.

i really don't want to withdraw from school. i think that the discipline i'm pursuing is an important one.

i just don't know why i face the challenges that i face.

but this third road trip. really. even though it has been a nightmare, i don't think that the outcome will be as terrible as.

i just don't know what to say.

i really want to finish the program. im heading all the way back to texas. again.







...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...



...



Back Home, September 9th, 2022

Back Home, September 9th, 2022

i dont know what happened the other day. but i seemed to have irritated the bartender at this pizza place i went to. i really didn't understand what happened.

she seemed upset about something. she said that she wanted me to leave. so i paid and left.

a guy chased after me, and said: "No one here thinks that's funny."

and i still have no idea what i did, or what offense i committed.

i remember, i asked where the basil was, and a woman behind me said:

"the toppings are placed underneath the cheese here."

and i responded: "you're right about that, i've eaten here before."

and then i just sort of went at it with my pizza,

and then the bartender became upset.

my nails were dirty, really dirty, and i was eating two slices of pizza at a time. like a pig.

and maybe that was the thing, she was irritated that i was eating like a pig.

but.

i think that i was eating with a fork and knife first, and then
i started eating with my hands.

maybe i should just change my major or something.

i really fucking wanted to go to school, but, i don't really know what the hell to do.

...




...



...

Notes, Thoughts, and Reflections While Using the Bloomberg Terminal 





...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 67

I should. well.

...

Annotation to Notes from Arlington, Texas # 67

I don't remember what I was going through when I wrote this particular note. Maybe I was in a state of confusion or something. or Maybe I was thinking about something else. I don't really know.

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 66

That was a nightmare. I went on this strange road-trip, crossing nearly a jillion states, I ended up in the psychiatric hospital on a court ordered mental health hold. Something similar to a 51-50 in California. and now I'm back home.

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 66

...

What is the deal right now. This is an annotation to Notes from Arlington, Texas # 66. I'm thinking. This was a note from a while ago. I think this was after the June Road Trip. These road trips were interesting. A nightmare, but interesting as well.

...

September 20th, 2022

51.00 + 65.00

"The brunette bartender at the Restaurant on Collins Boulevard"


her name is katie, and i distinctly remember her having 

blonde hair the last time i came here

this time she berates me for my behavior the last time

i came here, so are 

you going to sit at a booth the next time

you get irritated, 

or are you going to stay where you are?

i tell her i'll stay where I am,

still minutes later. no food. i'm really hungry.

starving. even

she has knockers and she's on collins

i order a bicardi

katie berates me for not having


for having taken a seat elsewhere the last time I was here

i order a tray of 6 naked wings,

but when they arrive they are drenched in
a sweet red sauce?
what is this?

what could this be?
it's sauce!

attitude.
she has an attitude.

it's not that i'm lacking in gratitude.
i'm hungry.

unlike the last time i was here I ate more than
enough.

and you still haven't visted the location in Dallas

the location in dallas is where the largest location is
really. you won't believe how amazing it is.
the largest in the united states, maybe even the world!

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 65

06/15/2022 08:32 PM

...

I'm in fucking Nashville.

* * *

it's a constant recalibration of what i need to do. filing for unemployment is a total waste of time. filing an unemployment insurance claim is a total waste of time. my claim never gets approved. nightmare. so what the hell do i do?

* * *

There is an issue of. i need to have enough student loan money to cover living expenses. i really don't want to resort to taking out private fucking student loans.

* * *

this is a nightmare. i think that i'll either. i think that i'll file the unemployment claim. and the disability claim.

i'm looking at my electricity bill. 55 fucking kilowatt hours! 10 dollars and 55 fucking cents. i'm home all the time now. so. i just have to figure out what the hell to do over the next few. hell. there really is no telling how long this is going to take. to find work.

if i do have to relocate. yeah. i don't really know.

* * *

i don't know if i should file an additional unemployment claim or what.

* * *

large butts. are part of the large butt industrial complex. small butts. are part of the small butt industrial complex. there are different industries. and there are different industrial complexes. that's just more or less the way that it is. that is more or less the way that it goes. there is something that i was thinking about.

* * *

sometimes designs put us at odds with one another. sometimes designs intentionally put us at odds with one another. i get that quiet spaces are needed. i remember. i found it difficult to accept a work from home position. because. me neighborhood was just too noisy at the time. it was hard to accept calls. it was hard to concentrate on work. it was hard to focus. sometimes it can be hard to focus. sometimes it can be hard to get things done when it's noisy. does it really enhance your concentration. well. who know. i do. i really do need to make a living. and. right now. i just don't think that i can do that. 

i think. it's a conspiracy on the part of the sell things industrial complex. i think that it's part of the industrial goods industrial complex. you have a problem. and we have the solution. i do not want all old things. i want all new things. i don't want a single new thing. i want all old things. i do not want anything other than high prices antiques that are sold by the most respectable antique dealers. and that's the only thing that i want. antiques. antiques. respectable. respectable. 

i remember. there were a few times when i worked in an office setting. and. it was noisy. and. in those cases. i was the noisy one.

* * *

i'm trying to compile my posts for Letters from Sanford Street. and this is the kind of thing that will take some time. what else was i trying to do? well. there was something that i needed to work on, but for some reason. it seems to have slipped my mind. i don't know how to deal with this kind of thing. it's possible that. he might just be trying to get an interview done or something. i have no idea. but he just left. and now this is easier.

i get. i understand that we don't always have our own private work spaces. we don't all have our own offices. and. these quite spaces are really needed. i get that.

part of the reason that i do conduct business. i do work from home when as far as work pertains to Chestnut + Hazel. is because i really don't have money for an office. not right now. any maybe the work from home thing does come with opportunities that can change things.

i think about the people who started businesses in their dorm room. or people who started businesses in their garage.

* * *

it doesn't take long for quiet spaces to become loud spaces. quiet spaces. everyone needs them. i think this guy is from the walking advertisement industrial complex.

* * *

i have to look for something. i have to look for a position. not because i need the money, but because it's relevant to what i want to accomplish. but the only think i really want to accomplish is to have more money.

* * *

i liquidated nearly everything in my robinhood account. i don't think that i would have ever done that. really. i thought that i would just be able to hold down a job. but i actually can't. i can't hold down a job. everyone picks on me. and this is true no matter where i work.

i have to think about what my next moves are. because this is a nightmare. i don't know if i'll be able to find work. or what. or what kind of work or employment i should be looking for.

* * *

alright. well I guess that's over. what a total nightmare. but right now. i really don't know what to do for work.

* * *

it wasn't too far back that i really felt that things were getting better. but they continue to be a disaster. what the hell do i need to do.

* * *

These last few days have been extremely challenging for me. Everything feels like a kind of sensation overload, and I have to look for work, again.

* * *


Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
9m
make a reference to the original. make an attribution. and make a contribution by making a slight change.

think about the original sin of mankind. make a slight change. then make a contribution of your own. you'll have fun. but this assertion is not guaranteed.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
12m
have you ever tasted how so many things taste similar to one another. this one iPhone had a very similar taste to this generic smart phone i was licking earlier. can you taste the difference? i couldn't! i'm embarrassed and i feel like i have no taste.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
14m
maybe we can collect all of the artifacts that the people all over the universe are collecting. if others collect them. then we too should collect them. in many ways. this is a good thing. in other ways. it's something other than a good thing.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
15m
there is an ongoing twitter conflict between the freudians and the hubbardians. this sort of thing will never end. is it all in your mind. or is it all in your head. this debate will never end.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
16m
orange juice is made from squeezed oranges. lemonade is made from squeeze lemons.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
there really is no such thing as a free lunch. but these tweet is free. 

eat my tweet.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
i met a man from an antique land who said. that upon his ball sack. these cock rings appear.

i told him it's wrong to use a cock ring for his ball sack. it's better to use a ball ring.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
what color are your balls. well. you wouldn't know unless you opened your scrotum and checked.

and don't think you can trick me by painting your balls. or dying them red. neptune is an even bluer big ball with a ball ring.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
sputnik was the first man made ball of steel to circle an even greener. and even bluer ball. the earth is a big blue ball.

think of the white ball. and think of the red ball. tonight. we dine at the pub. tonight we play pool.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
balls. inside of an even bigger. translucent ball. and your balls are numbered. 

because we're playing bingo. what did you think we were doing.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
balls. inside of a netted sack.

i think. therefore. that these are onions.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
and on that pedestal. massive stone balls appear.

and on those pedestals. these massive stone balls appear.

do they have names. I don't think they do.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
i think. i dont really know. spam. maybe. ham. maybe. green apples and spam. what do you think.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
large balls. stone balls. concrete spheres mounted on cubes outside of city hall.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
everything is a headache. and everything else is a nightmare.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
but everything is kind of uncertain. onions and maybe some kind of sauce.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
pencils and pens and notebooks. a laptop a tablet. maybe a new phone.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
pencils and pens and notebooks. a laptop a tablet. maybe a new phone.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
... well. i guess she's off the market now. and i guess its no skin off my cock.

#megamatzoballs
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
... she said something about the beach and a fish net g string and a large otter. and sand. it gets everywhere. even a woman's crotch. and even a one as unbelievably tight as it gets.

#megamatzoballs
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
well. um. if you want to know the truth. im actually part of the team investigating you know who. and. it. um. it honestly felt like she had sand in her crotch. fine grain sand. gently abrasive. good. but still. she had a sand crotch.

#megamatzoballs

Annotation to Notes from Arlington # 65

This was written during my June Road trip

Postcards from Tennessee # 1 

...

Photo Dump

...

Butter is not the Answer # 2

this ia going to be post cards from Tennessee even though.im not really in Tennessee.

I've been at this rest stop nearly a thousand times back and forth and back and forth across the mid west and over and over and it never ends.

...

im at this reat atop ive been to before.

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 2 

...

So, settling down in Tennessee isn't going to happen. I think I'm in Illinois. I need to find my nail clipper.

...



this ia going to be post cards from Tennessee even though.im not really in Tennessee.

I've been at this rest stop nearly a thousand times back and forth and back and forth across the mid west and over and over and it never ends.

...

im at this reat atop ive been to before.

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 2 

...

So, settling down in Tennessee isn't going to happen. I think I'm in Illinois. I need to find my nail clipper.

...




















I have an idea. I need a residential address, and that was the purpose of the apartment on Sanford Street, although, I also lived there too. I mean, I'm moving back in with my mom, but, not really. I'll head back to Las Vegas. but I think that I'm also going to head back to Texas to set up Chestnut + Hazel, LLC while I'm still more or less a resident of Texas. One thing about trying to register in Tennessee was that you're required to be a resident of Tennessee to register an LLC in the State of Tennessee, I figure that it's the same in Texas. Kenneth Larot Yamat dba Chestnut + Hazel, and Chestnut + Hazel, Sole Proprietorship (SP) will still continue to exist, albeit separately from Chestnut + Hazel, LLC.

...

I wonder. like. what happens next? I'm heading back to Las Vegas, but what happens next? once I get there? what happens?

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 3 

...

Butter is not the Answer # 3 

...
































The Brunette Bartender at the Restaurant on Collins Boulevard (2022)

her name is katie b, and i distinctly remember her having
blonde hair the last time i came here
this time she berates me for my behavior the last time
i came here, so are 
you going to sit at a booth the next time
you get irritated, 
or are you going to stay where you are?
i tell her i'll stay where I am,
still minutes later. no food. i'm really hungry.
starving. even
she has knockers and she's on collins
i order a bicardi
katie berates me for not having

for having taken a seat elsewhere the last time I was here
i order a tray of 6 naked wings,
but when they arrive they are drenched in
a sweet red sauce?
what is this?
what could this be?
it's sauce!
attitude.
she has an attitude.

it's not that i'm lacking in gratitude.
i'm hungry.
unlike the last time i was here I ate more than
enough.
and you still haven't visted the location in Dallas

the location in dallas is where the largest location is
really. you won't believe how amazing it is.
the largest in the united states, maybe even the world!

what happened. well i freaked out the
first time i went to the restaurant
some guy at the bar started talking to me
and i asked if i could sit somewhere else
and it wasn't really the issue with the
bartender it was the issue of the guy at the bar
who would not stop asking me questions

in retrospect i realize that these are kind
of normal social interactions, but maybe
i just wasn't in the mood to engage in
a conversation with anyone at that particular
moment in time.

...

and so, now I backtrack. I head all the way back to Tarrant County, and then I head to Vegas. I feel like my life is nothing but a series of going in one fucking direction, and then back-tracking. Let's just figure out this dba bullshit first.

i have 2 fucking days.

I have to head all the way back to Tarrant County, and then figure out where to go from there. I mean. I guess I'll head over to Vegas. I mean, I have to figure out the whole school thing, and I really think it might be easier to just go to UTA, and somehow, you know, express the extraordinary challenges that I've faced these last few weeks.

...

I can file the dba forms with the Secretary of State first, and then the dba forms for Tarrant County afterward, once I'm in Tarrant County. I'll head out now. I'm really tired, and I would just like to get some rest, but, this is something that I do need to get done before I head to Las Vegas.

...

I feel funny about going back to Texas, and honestly, I don't really want to go back to Texas, at all.

...

and when I think about it, this is quite a bit of work for what is more or less a pen name.

...

Oh god, I have to actually be in Tarrant County Texas to register the dba, no joke, there is an option to file by mail, rather than in-person at the Tarrant County Courthouse, or at a sub-courthouse, but you need a notary that is in Tarrant County

...

So a dba is sometimes called an fictitious name, a fictitious business name, or in the case of Texas, an assumed name. In Texas, there's a requirement to file an assumed name, or a dba, with the Secretary of State, as well as with the County Recorder that you're doing business in.

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 4 

...

Butter is not the Answer # 4 

...



























































I really don't see myself ever going back to the Dallas / Fort Worth area, but it's possible that one circumstance or another might lead me right back there. It was one circumstance or another that brought me to the Dallas / Fort Worth area in the first place, maybe one circumstance or another might bring me back there, but I really don't see that happening.

Who knows what could happen between now and December? Anything in the universe could happen between now and December, and so it might make sense for me to keep my options open, and that's kind of why I'm seeking "incompletes" for my courses, rather than withdrawing from the courses completely and dropping out of the MSQF program. 

While I'm here in Las Vegas I should probably find work. One of the issues about finding work here in Las Vegas is that once I start looking for work and once I start really setting myself up here in Las Vegas, it becomes less and less likely that I'll return to Dallas / Fort Worth. I didn't really have anything going on for me, other than graduate school, that was really keeping me in Dallas / Fort Work, and I was facing a number of issues in addition to not really being able to get anything done in terms of course work and in terms of studying, I had a number of problems going on that I really would rather not mention.

...

📮5892 Losee RD STE 132 PMB 176, North Las Vegas, NV 89081-6200 📧 info@chestnutandhazel.com ☎+1-816-724-5293

...

699419196923423523
568948319769000067
918377665423331233
349305523412341234
556667887429478623
457324593245582235
632347518234575054
533534364784058713

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 12 

...

457324593245582235
180719869712633802
198468402873748397
892374992348792340
479012765681273942

...

Butter is not the Answer # 12

...

I can file the dba forms with the Secretary of State first, and then the dba forms for Tarrant County afterward, once I'm in Tarrant County. I'll head out now. I'm really tired, and I would just like to get some rest, but, this is something that I do need to get done before I head to Las Vegas.

...

I feel funny about going back to Texas, and honestly, I don't really want to go back to Texas, at all.

...

and when I think about it, this is quite a bit of work for what is more or less a pen name.

...

Oh god, I have to actually be in Tarrant County Texas to register the dba, no joke, there is an option to file by mail, rather than in-person at the Tarrant County Courthouse, or at a sub-courthouse, but you need a notary that is in Tarrant County

...

So a dba is sometimes called an fictitious name, a fictitious business name, or in the case of Texas, an assumed name. In Texas, there's a requirement to file an assumed name, or a dba, with the Secretary of State, as well as with the County Recorder that you're doing business in.

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 4 

...

Butter is not the Answer # 4 

...



























































I'm going to complete the assumed name / dba paperwork when I get into town. I left in kind of a hurry, and, it's like I'm just going right the fuck back there. I should throw away additional shit. My car is way too full. Archived Content 10/14/2022 05:30 PM 

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 5 

...

Butter is not the Answer # 5 

...



















The dba is just a Pen Name, or pseudonym that I use as a blogger, but it's also the name of the blog, and the web domain, and, it's also kind of a business name, under which I perform the business of blogging. So, I registered.

When my mom said I can move back in, I thought maybe I could try my luck in Tennessee, but I'll hold off on that idea for now. LaVergne is the place I considered. mostly because it's between Murfreesboro and Nashville. Archived Content 10/14/2022 05:29 PM 

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 6 

...

Butter is not the Answer # 6 

...




Postcards from Tennessee # 7 

...

Butter is not the Answer # 7 

I stated in Gallup, New Mexico for just one night, I hung out with one of the locals, and I really think that I liked her. I really would have considered staying in Gallup, New Mexico, still. I'm not sure what I would have done for work, or where I would have stayed or, whatever. There was something interesting at the hotel I stayed at. The hotel was actually somewhat fancy, and some of the other hotels in the area, the ones that seemed abandoned, or worn down, or otherwise kind of lousy, were the ones I really wanted to stay at. I wanted to stay at a cheaper motel, or cheaper hotel or something that was cheap, and also looked cheap. The desk agent was actually a person who was telecommuting.

I'm in Gallup, New Mexico. This seems like a tourist destination, but, it also seems like a college town too.

Annotation written on 10/09/2022 @ 05:29 PM

I really thought about staying here. 
or
I really thought about staying in 
Gallup, New Mexico. They have
a University there, and I really
thought about relocating to that
area.

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 9 

...







Postcards from Tennessee # 10 

...







I have to think about something. I'm just trying to get my thoughts together. I applied for a few positions, but just 2, and I'm kind of wondering if I should send out a whole bunch right away, of if I should just send out a few here and there. So I applied for 3 positions today. I really don't know what to do about college. I set up my account for handling the student loans I took out for my first semester, but I'll look further into it later. There is one position that I saw open that I'm interested in, and, it's kind of in the same building that, uh. you know. i don't know. maybe i'll apply there anyway.

When popcorn seems like it doesn't have any flavor, be sure to taste it first, it might, in fact, taste like something, and if it tastes like something, then, by definition, it has flavor, even if it's not a very exciting one, but be aware: butter is never the answer!

There was stuff here before, and most of it was photographs that I collected from various social media sites and apps that I collected and posted here, but these things are silly, and butter, is still not the answer.

When you stare at a baked potato full of sour cream and sprinkled with cheese of this or that type, chives, green onions, maybe even cilantro; you should be aware of the fact that you are at liberty to taste the baked potato, but know this: butter is never the answer!

When you try to put a mushroom in a hamburger and things don't seem to be going as smoothly as you anticipated, know that you can use whatever you need to use in order to reduce whatever kind of friction you happen to be dealing with, use oil, because butter is not the answer.

There are times when butter is in fact the answer, but the circumstances where butter is the answer are rare. Suppose you're taking a multiple choice test and the question is: what's the answer? If the choices include: A) butter then it's possible that butter is the answer.

The other day I was collecting bottle caps from a trash can in a secluded back alley when two men with massive beards approached me, attempting to steal my bottle cap collection; the two men were carrying large sticks of butter that were sharpened with a butter stick sharpener.

Someone asked me about my clogged arteries and why they're so damn clogged up and I just had to respond to this person as directly and as honestly as I could, and I straight up told this person the honest truth: they're clogged, but butter is not the reason they're clogged.

I just applied for a position here in Las Vegas, and, I'll continue to look for work. I don't think that I'll be heading back to Arlington, it just seems like it's really not going to happen. I'm putting a few other things on the back burner for now. Like continuing to work on Chestnut + Hazel, more specifically, business registration aspects of it. I tried looking for positions at Amazon, but there was nothing available in the area. I was thinking that, since it's somewhat easy to transfer between locations with Amazon, that maybe I'd get in at a location here, and then, if something were to bring me back to Dallas / Fort Worth, that maybe I'd transfer back there. There's just nothing really in Dallas / Fort Worth, though, other than college, and even that was kind of falling apart. 

I did file a copyright for a few of my posts from the Letters from Sanford Street series, I used the "Online Literary Works" form, and it was somewhat more involved than using the Standard Registration process, but it does allow me to have claims on each individual post, rather than having a single claim one gigantic series. In this specific case, even though there is a single application for the 14 posts that I registered, each post is registered as part of a larger registration, using the previous method that I used, I would have to compile all the posts into a single post, and then register that single post as a "Collective Work" that I'd have a claim on. This distinction probably isn't obvious to someone who doesn't register copyrights, but an analogy that might make this easier to understand, is that it's like having 14 different deeds to 14 different 1 acre plots of land, rather than having 1 deed to a single 14 acre plot of land.

I also set up a mailbox at the UPS Store for my business, Chestnut + Hazel, and, even though I'm putting off registering the business in Clark County for the time being, I'm sure that I'll come around to it at some point.

I have to think about something. I'm just trying to get my thoughts together. I applied for a few positions, but just 2, and I'm kind of wondering if I should send out a whole bunch right away, of if I should just send out a few here and there. So I applied for 3 positions today. I really don't know what to do about college. I set up my account for handling the student loans I took out for my first semester, but I'll look further into it later. There is one position that I saw open that I'm interested in, and, it's kind of in the same building that, uh. you know. i don't know. maybe i'll apply there anyway.

When popcorn seems like it doesn't have any flavor, be sure to taste it first, it might, in fact, taste like something, and if it tastes like something, then, by definition, it has flavor, even if it's not a very exciting one, but be aware: butter is never the answer!

There was stuff here before, and most of it was photographs that I collected from various social media sites and apps that I collected and posted here, but these things are silly, and butter, is still not the answer.

...

she actually really liked
you and it's obvious
that you really cared about
her even though she was
obviously a trouble maker
and she clearly would 
make life difficult for you
if she didn't get what she
wanted from you and now
you are out of college and
now you are lonely and now
you have to start all over again

an update to how things
are going right now. again
it seems I'm being demonetized
for something on my blog. I'm
getting rid of the suspected content
but there really wasn't anything
specific pointed out. and so
I'm going around deleting what
could be offensive.

it was weird. before i left she
came over and asked me to
take her out for dinner, and
i had been wanting to take her
out for dinner for a while. we
went out a few times. i don't 
think that she really liked me.
maybe she did, but i always
felt that she felt that she had
a better option, or that she liked
someone else more. sometimes
i'd be somewhere in the neighborhood
and then BANG she was there too.

we went to dinner. she came over
and asked me to take her out
to dinner, and we got into kind of
an argument when we were there.

and now the Nevada DMV website
is down, it's actually down and the
whole department is actually taking
time off until the issue is resolved.
so, even if I new what documents to
bring to a walk-in, i couldn't even
go if i wanted to because the offices
are closed.

i'm spending additional time cleaning up things here and
it just never seems to end there are so many
dirty things here that are not appropriate for the rules. the
rules
say that this stuff is not
okay
it is not okay to have yourself saying
and writing what you are saying and writing about

i went all the way across
town to go to a buffet called
imperial sushi and seafood.
it was a long drive. the food
was really nice, and, for 36
bucks it was worth the money,
but the drive was a nightmare.
maybe i just haven't ever been 
used to rush hour traffic. I don't
know why.

...

















...

Poem

Butter is not the Answer # 8

Slices of rye toast are so boring! I've tried pepper, and I've tried salt, and I've tried using egg yolks, and I've tried using hashbrowns and slices of rye toast are still really boring! I think rye toast is antithetical to an exciting breakfast: jam? BUTTER IS NOT THE ANSWER!

...

I went to the deli section of the grocery store and ordered ribs and a large order of corn. I'm full. Anyway, I applied at Amazon, what was strange was that they didn't have any positions the other day, and today that had several available. It's kind of easy to transfer from location to location at Amazon, so, this keeps open the possibility of heading back to Dallas / Fort Worth. Gasoline in the area is kind of expensive, nearly 6 dollars a gallon.

...



















What I'm trying to figure out right now is whether or not to get a Nevada Driver's License, and Nevada Plates. These are things that should be taken care of after moving to Nevada, but I'm not sure if I've really moved here. I'm not really sure if I've really "moved" to Nevada. 

...

A few hours ago, I went to the grocery store and bought a rotisserie chicken, and an order of potato salad, but I'm just not hungry enough to finish all of this. I have been gaining weight, and I have been getting fatter, but I've been a lot less hungry as well. I really need to get back to work. These last few months have been kind of a waste of time, if I think of them in terms of how they've added to my overall progress in life, but they've been interesting, and sometimes I think that maybe these interesting events in life, these interesting life events, do add to a person's overall life progress.

...

what the hell do I have to think of right now? i'm just worried about the future, but not in a way, where, i'm freaking out or losing my mind, or, where i feel like bad things are on the horizon. i guess i'm anxious about the future, and about what to do in the coming months. i start work on the 22nd, i don't anticipate anything going wrong. the idea of going back to dallas / fort worth and going back to school is somewhere in the back of my mind, but what is the most intelligent thing for me to do?

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 15 

...

Poem

Butter is not the Answer # 17

say whatever you
want about whatever
your opinion is, and when
you say it you can feel free
to say it at the top of
your lungs, but whatever
you say, and whatever
your point of view
is. just know that 
butter is not the answer.
it's not, it's really not the
answer.

...

Poem

Butter is not the Answer # 16

it's possible to drown most
of the problems of life, the struggles
the ups and downs, and even 
many of the sadnesses you face
with olive oil, and wine, and whine
but just be aware
of the fact that butter is not the answer.
you think that crispy chicken is 
created with the buttery goodness
of something other than lard and
hydrogenated soybean oil?
Think Again! It's something else!
not butter! butter is not the answer!

...

Poem

Butter is not the Answer # 15

there aren't very many questions
and there are even fewer qualified
answers to those questions and there
are even fewer answers that are valid
and true
and you know with
great certainty that
butter is not the answer

...

butter is not the answer, Butter Is Not The Answer, BUTTER IS NOT THE ANSWER!

...

Poem, Butter is not the Answer, Ken Yamat, Postcards from Tennessee # 15, Chestnut + Hazel, Cash Secured Puts, Chestnut and Hazel, #butterisnottheanswer, Archived Content 07032020 0624, Chestnut & Hazel, kenneth larot yamat, Kenneth Larot Yamat, Archived Content, archived content,

...

I while ago, and this was during one of my road trips, I was at a kind of shopping center, I wouldn't call it a mall because it wasn't all indoors, and I wouldn't call it an outlet shopping center, because, it really wasn't focused on discounts, but whatever it was, I really didn't go shopping, I spent my time going to the restaurants there. I think I went to three different restaurants, and at the last restaurant I went to there was this guy, an older man, and he was with his wife. I ordered a shot of gin, and, out of nowhere he says something like: "Gin, I haven't had gin since I was in my early twenties and vomited all over the place."

He was obviously trying to get a reaction out of me. I don't know what happened afterward, but there was kind of a discussion back and forth, and he eventually left, I'm not sure if he ordered anything, or if he was just loitering at the bar, pretending that he was going to spend a lot of money, and then, used his kind of, unpleasantness as a kind of pretext or reason for not ordering anything.

...

but I've noticed that over the past few months, that people at restaurants can be kind of. They interact with me in a way that suggests that they really don't want me there. or they want me to leave. I'm just there, and I'm just fucking eating.

...

but I think about different times, and different places that i've felt like i was being pushed out of. some things are related, and some things aren't. and trying to figure out which things are related, and which aren't related is something i kind of have to figure out.

...







The price of gasoline is ridiculously high in Las Vegas. I read that OPEC+ is cutting production in order to increase oil prices, and I'm sure that there are other variables as well. The gasoline prices that I encountered during my road trips was closer to 3.50 per gallon, and this was throughout the mid-west. It's just really high in Las Vegas.

I was looking for my nail clipper earlier, but I couldn't find it. I checked all my luggage and my car, and I must have lost it or left it somewhere. I need to keep my nails short. it's difficult to use my phone with long nails.

I have a bunch of stuff that I have to get rid of. For one reason or another I developed a habit of buying hammers or different designs and styles. I won't use most of these ever. I have no use for these.

Stay where the people are rather than
going to that place where the invisible
people are. That's where the nest is and
where the birds go.

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 16
Archived Content 10/13/2022 08:17 PM 

...

I have this issue where, I still come across the: ilovekristin@chestnutandhazel.com email, even in places where I really don't think I set it up. It happened just a few minutes ago. I've been using info@chestnutandhazel.com most of the time when setting up new accounts that require an email.

...

https://dmv.nv.gov/newresident.htm

...





I might be able to figure this out. I really think that I might be able to figure this out.

* * *

Okay. I think that I got it. I think I know what I have to do. 

Research:            Electives
                            Patent and Trademark Process

* * *

I have to look at this again.

* * *

What the hell do I have to do right now?

* * *

i'm thinking. I have a business. and I am a business owner. and I operate a business. It's called: Chestnut + Hazel. and it's an intellectual property business. and what i need to know is how to sell intellectual property.

i really don't need all this other information. I need to know how to sell copyrights.

* * *

what is the issue right now? it just feels like everything is falling apart. it really does. it really fucking does. and maybe. i'm responsible for all of this. and maybe. there were contributors.

* * *

I'm removing this idea. I'm thinking that. It would make more sense to patent an idea, and then sell the patent to a company that already has a business in place to market and distribute the product, rather than starting something from the ground up. It really makes more sense to approach it that way.

Selling Stuff Online / E-Commerce / Contemporary Verbiage of the Same

* * *

even though i'm making less money. i do have more time as a result, but this still feels like less time. or. it feels like it's not enough time. really. i just really hope that this. different trajectory that i'm taking actually gets me somewhere.

* * *

if i could explain my hesitance to spend any of my robinhood money it's this: like, my money is the only lifeboat i have. i can't beg other people for help. i would rather commit suicide. and i'm actually not even lying when i say that.

i would rather commit suicide than beg for help.

i'm just really sick of the non-stop difficulties that i face. it's like everything. every challenge i face forces me into some shitty ass corner. i'm hoping my shitty ass situation gets better. i'm sure it will improve, but i'm really facing shitty situations right now, and it's a fucking nightmare.

* * *

I really enjoy reading SPAM emails, but. right now. i really have no need whatsoever for no strings attached sexual encounters. even. even if these were actual offers of actual sexual encounters. that were actually. no. strings. attached.

aside from that. everything is a nightmare.

* * *

What else do I have to do?

* * *

Fermentation Apparatus
 Distillation Apparatus
Terrarium Contraption
Aquarium Contraption

* * *

Dealing with a number of difficulties at the moment. Everything is just. not very easy or straight-forward. everything is a nightmare. everything is diffuclt.

* * *

Google AdSense ad serving has been restricted on your site
Hello,
This message is to alert you that one of your sites is not currently in compliance with our AdSense Program policies and as a result, ad serving has been restricted on your site.
Ad serving has been restricted on: chestnutandhazel.com
Action required: If you have modified your site to be in compliance with our policies or you feel this restriction is in error, please visit the AdSense Policy Center to view this violation and request a review.
Current account status: Active
Restriction(s) explanation
"Adult: Sexual content":
Certain sources of advertising are restricted from appearing on content that:
contains nudity.
is sexually gratifying, sexually suggestive and/or intended to cause sexual arousal.
discusses sexual fetishes.
is about sexual entertainment.
promotes sexual merchandise.
facilitates affairs and/or sexual encounters.
provides advice regarding sexual performance.
promotes sexual enhancement medications or supplements.
Review the full restriction (including examples) in the Help Center.

Appeals
If you want to appeal this restriction, you can contact us via the AdSense Policy Center. Learn more about restricted ad serving.
Thanks for your cooperation.
Sincerely,
The Google AdSense Team

* * *

This was a Letter to the Editor submitted via the submissions gadget.

Hi,

A study found that 63 percent of people
(https://www.inc.com/minda-zetlin/63-percent-of-20-somethings-want-to-own-a-business.html)
in their 20s want to start a business. I think that’s great.

However, there’s a big difference between starting a business and starting
a successful business, and young people may not have the experience that
comes from years of working in a given industry to know what the signs of
trouble actually are.

I’d love to write about that for your website. I’ll put together an article
for young entrepreneurs with advice on how to turn their great idea into a
successful startup. I'd be happy to feature your website as well.

The article is completely complimentary. I have a great mentor, and I
simply want to pay it forward as much as I can.

Please let me know if you’re interested.

Thank you in advance!
Lucy Reed
lucy@gigmine.co

Regards,
Lucy Reed | lucy@gigmine.co

Note: This email was sent via the Contact Form gadget on
http://www.chestnutandhazel.com

* * *

[Chestnut + Hazel] New message received.

Blogger Contact Form <no-reply@blogger.com>
Mon, Jun 6, 12:31 AM (1 day ago)
to me, submissions

Hi,

A study found that 63 percent of people 
(https://www.inc.com/minda-zetlin/63-percent-of-20-somethings-want-to-own-a-business.html) 
in their 20s want to start a business. I think that’s great.

However, there’s a big difference between starting a business and starting 
a successful business, and young people may not have the experience that 
comes from years of working in a given industry to know what the signs of 
trouble actually are.

I’d love to write about that for your website. I’ll put together an article 
for young entrepreneurs with advice on how to turn their great idea into a 
successful startup. I'd be happy to feature your website as well.

The article is completely complimentary. I have a great mentor, and I 
simply want to pay it forward as much as I can.

Please let me know if you’re interested.

Thank you in advance!
Lucy Reed
lucy@gigmine.co

Regards,
Lucy Reed | lucy@gigmine.co

Note: This email was sent via the Contact Form gadget on 
http://www.chestnutandhazel.com


Kenneth Larot Yamat <submissions@chestnutandhazel.com>
Mon, Jun 6, 6:47 AM (1 day ago)
to Lucy

Greetings Lucy:

Sure, send me what you've got.

Sincerely,

Kenneth Larot Yamat

* * *

Yes! I was accepted to the University of Texas at Arlington! I figure the rest of this stuff out later. This will be awesome. Super awesome!

* * *

MFA = multi-factor authentication - I remember this meaning Master of Fine Arts

* * *

I was looking for something related to. I was trying to search for things re. I was trying to do a search for articles related to American Depository Receipts (ADRs) but what I was given was articles on Alternative Dispute Resolutions (ADR). I'll try this again later.

* * *

I want to register a copyright for danish cookie before i register innocuous posts

* * *

I changed my mind again, instead of using: #DanishCookieUxorious its going to be #DanishCookieUXorious

* * *

Need a computer with an optical drive - find out what is currently being used in terms of optical drives - figure out if they still exist.

compiled two sets of items that i'll register copyrights for when i get a chance.

* * *

megalodon shark - great white shark - killer whales - transient orcas - domestic orcas - may bifurcate into two species due to differences in orca culture - #danishcookieuxorious - as screenshots - as text - taschen - facebook album - pdf - screenshots - as a text file - encephelization quotient - brain weight to body weight however it's surface area adjusted - it's brain weigh to body weight and adjusted for surface area - emotional intelligence - speciaziation a sense of selfe consciousness - still angry about it - still angry about it and it's probably something i'll never let go of - i'm exaggerating - i don't know if there was something i was supposed to do - envelopes - charles babbage - open access academic journal - stock photograps - buy envelopes - reaserch and development tax credit - el castillo san felipe del morro san juan - digital marketing - scarface: need people like me point finger that's the bad guy - hot tub scene - computer optical drive large hard drive - donnie brasco someo ones going to get clipped gotta start earning - 

* * *

What gullible little shit
currently sucks upon your clit
- in re Horace via John Milton

* * *

Anyway. First issue is that I tried to transfer money from my Robinhood account, into my Citibank account, and I fat-fingered the transaction in the opposite direction. I sent money from my Citibank account to my Robinhood account. This is not a big deal, assuming I get paid this week.

* * *

What a pain in the neck. Stupid Spreadsheet. 

* * *

I bought a box of envelopes, and now I can't seem to find them.

* * *

I don't know what the hell to do about that. I was thinking about working on something right now. I don't remember. I don't. well. I do actually.

* * *

Objectives

    Copyrights:         innocuous posts 
                            Letters from Sanford Street
                            #DanishCookieUxorious
                            Notes from Arlington, Texas

    Patents:                Fermentation Apparatus
                             Distillation Apparatus

    Trademarks:        Chestnut + Hazel
                            Chestnut & Hazel
                            Chestnut and Hazel

    Research:            Electives
                            Patent and Trademark Process
                            Selling Stuff Online / E-Commerce / Contemporary Verbiage of the Same

    Tasks:                  Clean Up Google Photos

* * *

What the hell? these fucking things are jagged!

* * *

Let me think, just wait for the stuff I want to do, and then. I just really don't want to sell anything out of my Robinhood account. I don't want to sell anything out of my Robinhood account, any of my hobbies have to come out of my paychecks, and not my investments.

* * *

What do I have to deal with. Look, in this case. It really just makes more sense to wait to do a number of things that I want to do. In the mean time. it makes more sense just to do what I need, just the minimum amount of shit I need to survive for the time being, rather than blow all my money trying to do something potentially fruitless.

* * *

Wait until next week to do anything. This is just fucking ridiculous. 

* * *

The smartest thing to do for a number of things, is just wait until I get paid. I really don't want to take any more money from my Robinhood account. I really don't. So what do I have to deal with? just a few bullshits. I can't waste any money. I've already been doing that this entire month.

* * * 

In a lot of ways I kind of have to wait until next week to do a number of things. Well, I don't have to wait until next week. I simply have to. Well. I should wait until next week.

* * *

What the hell should I be working on right now?

* * *

there is a kind of workshop here in the Library. It's kind of neat. there are a bunch of different things that you can use to make things. like arts and crafts and stuff.

* * *

mass emails / patents / chemists / verbiage and dialect localization / contingent upon occupation / professional or occupation based localization / cosmetics / pharmaceuticals / beverages / agriculture / munitions / AWS / DEI = Diversity Equity and Inclusion 

* * *

I need to buy envelopes. what else. I kind of need to buy a battery for my car key, but I'm not really sure I'm going to worry about that.

One thing that is kind of cool about my new place of work, is that it is buy the University of Texas at Arlington Research Institute. I want to describe the area I work in as a kind of Industrial Park.

The thing I kind of want to patent is. and I honestly. I really don't have anything going on with it right now. is some kind of fermentation apparatus, you know:

A fucking home brew beer maker bullshit thing.

I want to check this place out, the Research Institute. 

I um. have or had this idea of: Chestnut + Hazel Laboratories, or Chestnut + Hazel Prototyping, or Chestnut + Hazel Research and Development, or Chestnut + Hazel Designs.

* * *

I have this idea for something I want to patent. It's nothing super interesting. I want to say that whatever it is that I'm going to make is a mere incremental improvement over an existing product.

* * * 

There was something that I was going to work on, but I don't know what it was.

Trademark

Patent

* * *

...

Poem

Butter is not the Answer # 17

These are basically the things I need in Life to Eat the
butter, but I already established that Butter is not the answer, and
yet you did not listen to me.

...

📮 5892 Losee Road Suite # 132 Private Mail Box # 176, North Las Vegas, Nevada 89081-6200 
📧 info@chestnutandhazel.com ‎‎‎‎‎☎ +1-816-724-5293

...

📮5892 Losee RD STE 132 PMB 176, North Las Vegas, NV 89081-6200 📧info@chestnutandhazel.com ‎‎☎+1-816-724-5293

When I think about it, I wonder what it would have been like to stay in Gallup, New Mexico, if I would have started a life out there. It wouldn't have been clear to me what I would have done for work, or if there really was any work out there for me to do. I'm still so unsure about this whole thing about being back in Nevada.

...

I ended up buying a new nail clipper when I went to the grocery store. There was one thing that was interesting when I went to the grocery store: there were large sections of the store that had locked cabinets. Even though the neighborhood I lived in when I was living in Arlington, TX was a neighborhood that I would think of as being, like a destitute neighborhood, I just didn't see as many things locked up in cabinets.

I changed the title series from "Postcards from Tennessee" to "Butter is not the Answer" and even though the title doesn't really follow conventional capitalization rules, I really don't want to capitalize "is not" and so I won't be capitalizing those words. There also might be an issue with this title change as well, but I'll worry about that later.

I updated my address on most things that I use regularly, but what else do I need to update my address on? I think that I've done it on most things. I returned my apartment key to the land lady. I closed my utilities contract with the energy provider. I mailed my mailbox key back to the Post Office.

...

Places that I think about. 
I might not see them again, 
but places that I've been to, 
that I might not see again, that 
I think about. Gallup, New Mexico, 
Somerville, Tennessee, and 
La Vergne, Tennessee.

These things have not been here 
the whole time, and they have 
not been the best of the best, and 
they have not been the sticks of the butter.

She asked me to send a photograph
of me, stroking a stick of butter, and
I had to tell the girl that it wasn't
really what she was after, and she
really did not want me to send her
a photograph
of me stroking a stick of butter.

What she really wanted was a video
of me making a duck bill with my hand
and sticking my duck bill hand into
a bowl of butter, sticks of butter
are not the answer!

Places that I think about. 
I might not see them again, 
but places that I've been to, 
that I might not see again, that 
I think about. Gallup, New Mexico, 
Somerville, Tennessee, and 
La Vergne, Tennessee.

and while some people wish upon a 
star, it's totally possible that I would
have to wish upon a stick of butter
and tell people that the butter, that
praying to a stick of butter, that
wishing upon a stick of butter is 
not the solution to the
it's not the solution to whatever issue
you are having.

...

One of the issues from the outset was figuring out how to divide the work, even then the other person didn't really want to divide in conquer, but rather, I would do everything, and she would just have the final say on everything.

If I were in a position where I were getting paid for whatever work I was doing, I wouldn't really give a shit, she could send everything back and I'd do it all over again, but I'm not okay with an arrangement like this in a situation where I'm basically paying to learn, and I'm getting bogged down by doing all the work, and then, doing all the work all over again just so some other person can claim to have had the leadership role in the project. Like fuck that. I just pray to fucking God that these student loans are forgiven, and I could just do something else.

I was using an external hard drive for the longest time. My previous laptop didn't have very much hard drive space, or memory, and so I used an external drive to get around that, but my current laptop has a large enough hard disk that I really don't need an external hard drive, so I moved all the files from my external hard drive to the hard drive on my laptop and reformatted my external hard drive. I really didn't have any important information on my external hard drive, just gaming files and stuff. Most of the games that I play are really old. I haven't really bothered to look at anything new.

I wrote an email to my graduate advisor about dropping both of my classes and withdrawing from the MSQF program. There was a social dynamic that I really had trouble navigating, and, just found it an overall difficult environment to get very much of anything done in. I just don't really see any chance of going back there, and even if I did, I'm sure I would have many of the same issues next semester as I did this semester, and so I think it's really best that I just withdraw in this case.

...

I feel kind of lost, and kind of stuck at the same time. I'm getting things together to file for a Driver's License and Vehicle Registration in Nevada, and I really think it's less and less likely that I'll return to Arlington, Texas, and to UTA for the MSQF program. I don't really know where to go from here.

I think that. Well. There is a recession looming on the Horizon. What's going to happen? How is life going to be more or less difficult in the future? How will life be harder? How will life be easier? Things are going to be amazing! Trust me! Things will go well, and things will be amazing for you! Trust that things will be Amazing! and they WILL BE AMAZING! YOU KNOW HOW LIFE CAN BE AMAZING!

Sometimes I look up people from different periods of my life just to see how they are doing these days. 

...

This annotation to "innocuous post 37" is being written on 10/12/2022 04:17 PM

I remember writing this post. For a while after I moved to Texas, I started to pay more attention to the Mega Millions and the Powerball. I think that the main reason for this was that when I was living in Cameron, Missouri, I just didn't come across many advertisements for the lottery, or many billboards advertising the current Mega Millions or the Powerball jackpots. In a big Metro area like Dallas / Fort Worth, it was different, there were Lottery billboards everywhere, and everywhere I went there were people scratching lottery tickets, and, even that short month in January of 2022 when I worked at the gas station, there were tons of people who spent tons of money day after day buying lottery tickets and spending their lottery winnings on even more lottery tickets.

Every now and then I'll take an old post, and reflect on what was happening at that time, and then eventually I'll turn the old post into an "Archived Content" post. I looked at a few, and most of the old posts were about some of my initial thoughts about relocating to Texas. I don't think that I've written very much about my relocation from Texas. Not yet anyway. Lots of things just sort of went down the toilet after the end of February, February being the month that I went on a road trip to Louisiana and really fucked up my car in the process. Work wise, I think I remember quitting my second job at the Gas Station, the manager at the gas station was making the work situation more unpleasant than it needed to be, which made me think that she just really didn't want me working there and was creating a situation that would cause me to quit. Same thing at the Janitorial place that I worked 2 days at late in February.

Sometimes when I start a new position, I'm never sure if I should take things slow and not make any waves or rustle any feathers, or catch any one's attention, or, you know, sometimes I think that if I do take things slow, I'll be perceived as not being really interested in the role, or not being enthusiastic about my role.

I'm starting over again in Nevada. I really don't know what kind of long-term plans I have. I don't really have any long-term plans at this point. My thinking is that, for the next 12 months or so, I'll just reduce my debt and save up money for whatever does happen next. I just can't believe that I let things get out of hand like this. I wonder what I could have done differently. One thing would have been to relocate after the first road trip. The one back in June or July or whatever, but I don't really know, I had too many different things going on. Part of the reason I came back to Texas was to go to college, but that fell apart really quickly. I'm wondering how the fuck that happened, but everything was falling apart there, everything was falling apart for me in Texas, and really, to me, that means get the fuck out of there. I held on after the catastrophes I experienced in February, I did what I could and held on, and even school was an attempt to keep things going for me in Texas, but the school thing fell apart. So really, everything was falling apart for me in Texas. I "ran away" from Texas, but, I gave it a good 8 months and a good 50,000 dollars worth of effort to stay there after things were clearly going to hell in February. Maybe I did "run away" from my problems in Texas, but it probably would have made more sense to "cut my losses" early, and leave Texas, or started making plans to leave Texas, after February.

The only thing that I can think of doing here, while I'm in Las Vegas, is to reduce my debt, and increase my savings for as long as I can, and just have money and credit lined up for whatever happens. Every now and then things just seem to spiral right down the toilet. In San Jose, in Nevada four years ago, in Missouri two years ago, and just recently in Texas. Here we go again.

...

innocuous post # 37

somewhere in the ancient fortress town called
fort worth there is a winning lottery
ticket waiting to be purchased from bald
man number eight fourteen, he's soldering

a medieval random number picker
known as The Dart Board of Elysium 
which went downward through history, sticker
covered and glued with glitter and gypsum

to cover a crack in it's backside, and here
today, upon the bald man's desk, it sits,
waiting to reunite the forest's deer
with the savannah's antelope, which pits.

fuck this. the poem is fucking stupid.
i would much rather go right back to bed.

like where the fuck was I going to go
with that deer and antelope shit? who knows?

I was just thinking like. i have three lines 
left and i don't know where to take this damn
metaphor, dumb ass deer, dumb ass lions
stupid fucking dart board glued with green ham

and orange eggs. fuck. i had tacos once 
more today. glorious and crispy ones.

...

Butter is not the Answer # 19

you're wondering what
that feeling is. it's sweat!
you've been working out
and now you are greasy.
or you've been humping
your lover like the two of
you haven't humped each
other in years. you asked
yourself what that greasy
feeling might be. and
the answer to that question.
is not butter. butter was not.
and is not the answer to your
question.

...

okay. so what i want to know is. how does an emphasis. so. how does the individualized projects / team projects dichotomy reconcile itself with the work from home (WFH) / return to the office (RTO) dichotomy? and. i'm not trying to suggest.

anyway. i think that i've come with a solution to. like. how to respond. to any kind of. anyway. i'm not really going to worry about this for now because. i'm really not in that line of work anyway. and i have no intention of pursuing that line of work.

when i think about this. i just really don't want to suggest anything. i don't want to bring up anything that could. like. challenge the work from home (WFH) movement. i don't really want to say anything that would suggest that i'm anti-work-from-home, or anything. because.

and then, let's suppose hybrid-work environments. how do you hybridize individualized projects and team projects? what is the industry jargon for hybridized individualized collaboration work?

okay. i'll just take a position. if the team is the be all and end all of a project, then (RTO) would be optimal, wouldn't it? because you would have that additional layer of in-person collaboration that you just wouldn't get from tele-conferencing.

okay. so here. i have an idea for the. well. here's the thing. there are arguments for both sides of the return to the office (RTO) / work from home (WFH) argument.

one issue. one idea is that the (WFH) movement is a conspiracy on the part of the collaboration software industrial complex, how do we know this: cui bono! and, you could also say that, anyone who returns to the office (RTO) is, by definition, a team player, even if the person is a total introvert.

honestly, what side am i on? honestly: cui bono! i benefit most from (WFH) because i really don't like traffic. like really. why is there so much traffic. it's a car maker conspiracy! yeah. that's full disclosure.

and. yeah. that was really more thinking than i wanted to do after reading a short tweet and a few supporting tweets. 
...

I have a little over an hour before I should be checking out of this motel, I really don't have any money right now for another day. On the one hand there's this idea that the easiest thing to do would be to head back to Texas, I wouldn't have to go through this whole relocation headache yet again. I dropped all of my classes at UTA, and this is bad, of course, but it might be forgivable. On the other hand, I have a feeling that there's some reason for all of this traveling and shit that I've been doing lately, I really should be leaving Texas, but where the hell do I go? This area is just fine for finding work and setting up my business, and it's a kind of low cost of living area, I think. The issue with staying here is that when I think about relocating, I start thinking that I can really relocate to pretty much anywhere. Or to put it another way, when I think about relocating, I could probably find something that's slightly more ideal than this particular place.

...

So what are my plans now? I wouldn't mind hanging out here in Somerville, but, I eventually have to go back to school. I have to be in a city where I can find work, transfer into a new college, somewhere that's somewhat inexpensive, and that I can set up my business. I'm somewhat skeptical that I'll be able to transfer to a new college, given that I basically didn't accomplish anything during my first semester at UTA. This was a fucking disaster.

I found it hard to get anything done. The reason I wanted to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource for the course was because the Bloomberg Market Concepts Certification course was part of the Student Managed Investment Fund's requirements. I found the Bloomberg Terminal kind of complex to use, at first, but once I got the hang of it, I found it extremely useful.

Most of the analytical crap you would do in Excel, or in some other is stuff you can do in the Bloomberg Terminal by pressing the correct button, or, if you have some other formula or algorithm that you're working with, you can just plug it into the Bloomberg Terminal. There seemed to be this obsession with exporting data from the Bloomberg Terminal to work with it in Excel or some other software program to do some kind of analytical shit, but, it just seemed like an unnecessary extra step.

Anyway, I dropped my classes, and I'll see about getting into a college, or transferring into a college somewhere in Tennessee. It's 3:56 AM and I'm really fucking hungry, luckily for me, nothing is fucking open. I'm thinking that, okay. so. I can't really head back to Texas for whatever various reasons that prevent me from heading back there. I can't go back, and that's that.

I'm trying to think about what the hell went wrong there. Well, I guess I owe a bunch of money and didn't even so much as finish my classes.

...

I don't completely remember what set me off on that First road trip in June, or the one in February, or any of these road trips. Maybe I was thinking about relocating. I don't remember. I think that I'm going to relocate this time, but what the hell am I going to do for work? How the hell do I get set up in a new town? I need to find work, and an apartment. I minute ago I was thinking about heading back to Texas, but I really can't head back to Texas.

I'm thinking.

...

Notes Taken During My First Semester at the University of Texas at Arlington

...

Annotation to Notes from Arlington # 65

This was written during my June Road trip. It's September 25th, 2022, and I'm back in Tennessee. 

...

i stayed in Somerville tn for a night. im in the next town over, and i already feel like just staying here.

...

today is sunday. my thinking is that the roads should be empty, and it would be a good idea to keep driving.

...

i cant really go back to texas anyway. but i dont really know where to go.

...

maybe it was just time to leave texas. i had been there for 2 years. maybe it was just time for me to go. i really don't know what to do about college though.

...

i think that im just going to relocate. 
i'm on the Arkansas side of Memphis. 
i honestly don't know where the hell to go.

Everywhere is a fucking nightmare.
the nightmare never ends.
I really can't go back to Texas.

I have to leave texas. I really do.
I don't really know where to go, though.
this was a fabulous waste of money.

I threw away as much of my stuff as I could.
and threw away additional stuff on my way here.

I'll probably throw away 
additional stuff here 
and there
on my way to where 
ever the hell I end up.

i don't really know where 
the fuck to go at
this point.

I'm facing one frustration after another.

...

I'm really having a hard time getting my business in a more formalized state. I have the various things that I need to do on my calendar, but, sometimes there is no telling if I will get anything done or not, or if I'll get distracted by this or that issue, or, you know, who knows what will happen. I'm still facing a number of different challenges. and stuff. You know, like this and that stuff.

...

Class Notes Starting September 14th, 2022

one thing that I often face that impedes my ability to get anything done is the avalanche of emails that I have to deal with, or that fall into my mail box. I obviously don't read them all, but I usually scan them to see if they contain anything important.

...

Thinking. I'm going to hold off on looking for work right now. or looking for an internship or anything like that.

I really should just be focusing on school right now.

...

Butter is not the Answer # 9

I stayed in Gallup, New Mexico for just one night, I hung out with one of the locals, and I really think that I liked her. I really would have considered staying in Gallup, New Mexico, still. I'm not sure what I would have done for work, or where I would have stayed or, whatever. There was something interesting at the hotel I stayed at. The hotel was actually somewhat fancy, and some of the other hotels in the area, the ones that seemed abandoned, or worn down, or otherwise kind of lousy, were the ones I really wanted to stay at. I wanted to stay at a cheaper motel, or cheaper hotel or something that was cheap, and also looked cheap. The desk agent was actually a person who was telecommuting.

I'm in Gallup, New Mexico. This seems like a tourist destination, but, it also seems like a college town too.

Annotation written on 10/09/2022 @ 05:29 PM

I really thought about staying here. 
or
I really thought about staying in 
Gallup, New Mexico. They have
a University there, and I really
thought about relocating to that
area.

...



I stated in Gallup, New Mexico for just one night, I hung out with one of the locals, and I really think that I liked her. I really would have considered staying in Gallup, New Mexico, still. I'm not sure what I would have done for work, or where I would have stayed or, whatever. There was something interesting at the hotel I stayed at. The hotel was actually somewhat fancy, and some of the other hotels in the area, the ones that seemed abandoned, or worn down, or otherwise kind of lousy, were the ones I really wanted to stay at. I wanted to stay at a cheaper motel, or cheaper hotel or something that was cheap, and also looked cheap. The desk agent was actually a person who was telecommuting.

I'm in Gallup, New Mexico. This seems like a tourist destination, but, it also seems like a college town too.

Annotation written on 10/09/2022 @ 05:29 PM

I really thought about staying here. 
or
I really thought about staying in 
Gallup, New Mexico. They have
a University there, and I really
thought about relocating to that
area.

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 9 

...

what else is on my mind? Just facing quite a few challenges lately. It seems as though everywhere I go, someone or another tries to instigate a reaction. and it isn't always clear to me why.

...

June
July 
and 
August

were kind of a blur

same for the first part of September. I think that I went on four road trips this year. really long fucking road trips.

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 68

I better not buy anything that I don't need. I thought about buying a few wallets online, but I'm going to hold off on that for now.

Annotation to Notes from Arlington, Texas # 68

I really spent way too much money during these last few months. I really need to make my best effort to stay in school, otherwise I'm more or less fucked.

and again.

I really don't know how I'll be able to balance working and going to college at the same time. This might be a pain in the neck, but I also might be able to make this happen. Who knows.

...

1329052986263180533/2719064057174264964

1329052986263180533/2719064057174264964















...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

I really don't want to wear hats anymore. I feel like they give me a headache. One thing I realize from being in Texas for several years now, is that, it's hot, and humid, and it's really easy to get sweaty and smelly.

...

I would like to think up a new series title, but I really can't come up with anything. I really can't think of anything.

...

This is where the orange juice 
sends the lemonade to the martini. 
this is where the mimosa and the 
mojito drink and eat and feel 
the ends of the earth.

...

okay, so here is the issue. currently. i might be able to get some work done, but i'm not entirely sure about that. it's fifty-fifty.

...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

it can be kind of difficult to get anything done around here. a total fucking nightmare. I doubt that any of us can really get anything done.


it's kind of such a nightmare. to get anything done/ it can



\

Placeholder, still h

...

im not an indolent moron, nor am i an insolent ingrate. im tired. thats it. i guess it's a smoking room.

i ended up smoking in the room anyway. dont worry. i didnt have any fucking food. so i ate the nearest thing available. 

anyway. i know it took me a while to return to dallas, but, i figured that time was not of the essence, since compound interest is the most powerful force in the universe.

however. i have to figure something out. i cant find my fucking calculator. i havent upgraded since 1989. i dont even know if i still have that thing. shit.

...

always. if i visit Kentucky. i invariably manage to take the route back to dallas that passes through nashville. or vice versa, like last month.

...

This is the Third Time, September 3rd, 2022

anyway.

kenneth larot yamat is currently subject to a nondisclosure agreement with an undisclosed party.

should any specific remarks be made about his complete inability to perform cunnilingus from monday 7:02 AM to monday 7:77 AM be discussed with anyone other than the appropriate parties invloved, he will be in violation of said non-disclosure agreement, the breach of which will require significant compensation in the form of additional specific performance of additional cunnilingus or additional performance based compensation in the form of substantially more intense cunnilingus for the remainder of the current artistic performance of completely unsatisfactory cunnilingus, requiring an additional cunnilingus session performed with all deliberate haste.

should he smell like anything other than pussy juice upon his return to his current residence, he will be subject to nothing less than multiple additional performances of additional cunnilingus. 

...

some young man made a defamatory remark a while ago. young. but thats the way it goes for kids his age. well. he left. so.

well. any chance he could. you know. he is.

...

i dont know whats up. but. i think someone out there is accomplishment blocking me. i tried to head back to texas so that i could attend class in person, however, as soon as i left indiana, there was a fucking monsoon, or fucking invasion from outer space consisting primarily of rain drops, which kept falling on my head. so i put on my hat.

i dont feel like drowning to death. right now. i asked the sheriff for directions, he said theres a hotel in the big city. i got there. and there was no hotel. i guess i should have asked the deputy, but either he didnt have a deputy, or the deputy was in invisible mode. so.

...

When I think about. I don't know what to say.

this is the third road trip in 3 months. i'm tired. and. im just so irritable.

i want to be nice, but, sometimes i end up in places i dont really want to be.

i really don't want to withdraw from school. i think that the discipline i'm pursuing is an important one.

i just don't know why i face the challenges that i face.

but this third road trip. really. even though it has been a nightmare, i don't think that the outcome will be as terrible as.

i just don't know what to say.

i really want to finish the program. im heading all the way back to texas. again.

...

Butter is not the Answer # 11

It feels strange being back in Las Vegas, passing by the city skyline it just seems small in comparison to the DFW area. I really only saw the Dallas skyline a hand full of times, a few times when I moved to Dallas in 2020, and then, usually each time I left the area on a road trip. I feel funny. This feels really weird. Being back here. It feels different, it feels really different this time. Being here.

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 11 

...

based on your
performance
i have no choice
but to tell you
that you're
a total loser

...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.

...

think about 
what you did 
you total jerk!

...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...



...



Back Home, September 9th, 2022

Back Home, September 9th, 2022

i dont know what happened the other day. but i seemed to have irritated the bartender at this pizza place i went to. i really didn't understand what happened.

she seemed upset about something. she said that she wanted me to leave. so i paid and left.

a guy chased after me, and said: "No one here thinks that's funny."

and i still have no idea what i did, or what offense i committed.

i remember, i asked where the basil was, and a woman behind me said:

"the toppings are placed underneath the cheese here."

and i responded: "you're right about that, i've eaten here before."

and then i just sort of went at it with my pizza,

and then the bartender became upset.

my nails were dirty, really dirty, and i was eating two slices of pizza at a time. like a pig.

and maybe that was the thing, she was irritated that i was eating like a pig.

but.

i think that i was eating with a fork and knife first, and then
i started eating with my hands.

maybe i should just change my major or something.

i really fucking wanted to go to school, but, i don't really know what the hell to do.

...




...



...

Notes, Thoughts, and Reflections While Using the Bloomberg Terminal 





...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...

Links, Bookmarks, and Favorites Dump Section

https://www.worldtimebuddy.com/

https://www.irs.gov/credits-deductions/individuals/education-credits-questions-and-answers

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polyethylene

https://sciencing.com/difference-between-polyethylene-pvc-8531363.html

https://www.professionalplastics.com/professionalplastics/content/downloads/BallisticRatings.pdf

...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...

It didn't turn out the way I hoped it would. Things in Texas didn't turn out the way I hoped that they would, and I really don't know how everything went wrong all at once and I wasn't really prepared for all of that. I really wasn't.

...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.

...

I could put something here like the notes that I took, some of which were total non-sense.

...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...

Class Notes Starting September 14th, 2022

one thing that I often face that impedes my ability to get anything done is the avalanche of emails that I have to deal with, or that fall into my mail box. I obviously don't read them all, but I usually scan them to see if they contain anything important.

...

Thinking. I'm going to hold off on looking for work right now. or looking for an internship or anything like that.

I really should just be focusing on school right now.


...

what else is on my mind? Just facing quite a few challenges lately. It seems as though everywhere I go, someone or another tries to instigate a reaction. and it isn't always clear to me why.

...

June
July 
and 
August

were kind of a blur

same for the first part of September. I think that I went on four road trips this year. really long fucking road trips.



...

















...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

I really don't want to wear hats anymore. I feel like they give me a headache. One thing I realize from being in Texas for several years now, is that, it's hot, and humid, and it's really easy to get sweaty and smelly.

...

I would like to think up a new series title, but I really can't come up with anything. I really can't think of anything.

...

This is where the orange juice 
sends the lemonade to the martini. 
this is where the mimosa and the 
mojito drink and eat and feel 
the ends of the earth.

...

okay, so here is the issue. currently. i might be able to get some work done, but i'm not entirely sure about that. it's fifty-fifty.

...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

it can be kind of difficult to get anything done around here. a total fucking nightmare. I doubt that any of us can really get anything done.


it's kind of such a nightmare. to get anything done/ it can



\

Placeholder, still h

...

im not an indolent moron, nor am i an insolent ingrate. im tired. thats it. i guess it's a smoking room.

i ended up smoking in the room anyway. dont worry. i didnt have any fucking food. so i ate the nearest thing available. 

anyway. i know it took me a while to return to dallas, but, i figured that time was not of the essence, since compound interest is the most powerful force in the universe.

however. i have to figure something out. i cant find my fucking calculator. i havent upgraded since 1989. i dont even know if i still have that thing. shit.

...

always. if i visit Kentucky. i invariably manage to take the route back to dallas that passes through nashville. or vice versa, like last month.

...

This is the Third Time, September 3rd, 2022

anyway.

kenneth larot yamat is currently subject to a nondisclosure agreement with an undisclosed party.

should any specific remarks be made about his complete inability to perform cunnilingus from monday 7:02 AM to monday 7:77 AM be discussed with anyone other than the appropriate parties invloved, he will be in violation of said non-disclosure agreement, the breach of which will require significant compensation in the form of additional specific performance of additional cunnilingus or additional performance based compensation in the form of substantially more intense cunnilingus for the remainder of the current artistic performance of completely unsatisfactory cunnilingus, requiring an additional cunnilingus session performed with all deliberate haste.

should he smell like anything other than pussy juice upon his return to his current residence, he will be subject to nothing less than multiple additional performances of additional cunnilingus. 

...

some young man made a defamatory remark a while ago. young. but thats the way it goes for kids his age. well. he left. so.

well. any chance he could. you know. he is.

...

i dont know whats up. but. i think someone out there is accomplishment blocking me. i tried to head back to texas so that i could attend class in person, however, as soon as i left indiana, there was a fucking monsoon, or fucking invasion from outer space consisting primarily of rain drops, which kept falling on my head. so i put on my hat.

i dont feel like drowning to death. right now. i asked the sheriff for directions, he said theres a hotel in the big city. i got there. and there was no hotel. i guess i should have asked the deputy, but either he didnt have a deputy, or the deputy was in invisible mode. so.

...

When I think about. I don't know what to say.

this is the third road trip in 3 months. i'm tired. and. im just so irritable.

i want to be nice, but, sometimes i end up in places i dont really want to be.

i really don't want to withdraw from school. i think that the discipline i'm pursuing is an important one.

i just don't know why i face the challenges that i face.

but this third road trip. really. even though it has been a nightmare, i don't think that the outcome will be as terrible as.

i just don't know what to say.

i really want to finish the program. im heading all the way back to texas. again.







...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...



...



Back Home, September 9th, 2022

Back Home, September 9th, 2022

i dont know what happened the other day. but i seemed to have irritated the bartender at this pizza place i went to. i really didn't understand what happened.

she seemed upset about something. she said that she wanted me to leave. so i paid and left.

a guy chased after me, and said: "No one here thinks that's funny."

and i still have no idea what i did, or what offense i committed.

i remember, i asked where the basil was, and a woman behind me said:

"the toppings are placed underneath the cheese here."

and i responded: "you're right about that, i've eaten here before."

and then i just sort of went at it with my pizza,

and then the bartender became upset.

my nails were dirty, really dirty, and i was eating two slices of pizza at a time. like a pig.

and maybe that was the thing, she was irritated that i was eating like a pig.

but.

i think that i was eating with a fork and knife first, and then
i started eating with my hands.

maybe i should just change my major or something.

i really fucking wanted to go to school, but, i don't really know what the hell to do.

...




...



...

Notes, Thoughts, and Reflections While Using the Bloomberg Terminal 





...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

Butter is not the Answer # 10

https://www.blogger.com/u/1/blog/post/edit/1329052986263180533/1399004052754844542

When I think about it, I wonder what it would have been like to stay in Gallup, New Mexico, if I would have started a life out there. It wouldn't have been clear to me what I would have done for work, or if there really was any work out there for me to do. I'm still so unsure about this whole thing about being back in Nevada.

66 miles outside of Las Vegas. I'm at a gas station just unwinding for a little bit.

Hum... back in Arizona I stopped at a Napa Auto Parts store and changed my wiper blades.

I'm about 160 miles outside of Las Vegas. I emailed my graduate advisor about my situation, and about the need to potentially withdraw from the MSQF program.

After staying the night in Roswell, NM I kept driving until I passed through Gallup, NM, where I stayed the night.

...

I'm about 160 miles outside of Las Vegas. I emailed my graduate advisor about my situation, and about the need to potentially withdraw from the MSQF program.

...

After staying the night in Roswell, NM I kept driving until I passed through Gallup, NM, where I stayed the night.

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 10 

...















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.

...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...

The sector analysis paper is due before 
the Bloomberg Certification is due, 
so, I guess I'll get started on that first.

...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.

...

I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?

...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so

never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at

11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.

there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 67

I should. well.

Annotation to Notes from Arlington, Texas # 67

I don't remember what I was going through when I wrote this particular note. Maybe I was in a state of confusion or something. or Maybe I was thinking about something else. I don't really know.

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 66

That was a nightmare. I went on this strange road-trip, crossing nearly a jillion states, I ended up in the psychiatric hospital on a court ordered mental health hold. Something similar to a 51-50 in California. and now I'm back home.

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 66

What is the deal right now. This is an annotation to Notes from Arlington, Texas # 66. I'm thinking. This was a note from a while ago. I think this was after the June Road Trip. These road trips were interesting. A nightmare, but interesting as well.

September 20th, 2022

51.00 + 65.00

"The brunette bartender at the Restaurant on Collins Boulevard"


her name is katie, and i distinctly remember her having 

blonde hair the last time i came here

this time she berates me for my behavior the last time

i came here, so are 

you going to sit at a booth the next time

you get irritated, 

or are you going to stay where you are?

i tell her i'll stay where I am,

still minutes later. no food. i'm really hungry.

starving. even

she has knockers and she's on collins

i order a bicardi

katie berates me for not having


for having taken a seat elsewhere the last time I was here

i order a tray of 6 naked wings,

but when they arrive they are drenched in
a sweet red sauce?
what is this?

what could this be?
it's sauce!

attitude.
she has an attitude.

it's not that i'm lacking in gratitude.
i'm hungry.

unlike the last time i was here I ate more than
enough.

and you still haven't visted the location in Dallas

the location in dallas is where the largest location is
really. you won't believe how amazing it is.
the largest in the united states, maybe even the world!

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 65

06/15/2022 08:32 PM

...

I'm in fucking Nashville.

* * *

it's a constant recalibration of what i need to do. filing for unemployment is a total waste of time. filing an unemployment insurance claim is a total waste of time. my claim never gets approved. nightmare. so what the hell do i do?

* * *

There is an issue of. i need to have enough student loan money to cover living expenses. i really don't want to resort to taking out private fucking student loans.

* * *

this is a nightmare. i think that i'll either. i think that i'll file the unemployment claim. and the disability claim.

i'm looking at my electricity bill. 55 fucking kilowatt hours! 10 dollars and 55 fucking cents. i'm home all the time now. so. i just have to figure out what the hell to do over the next few. hell. there really is no telling how long this is going to take. to find work.

if i do have to relocate. yeah. i don't really know.

* * *

i don't know if i should file an additional unemployment claim or what.

* * *

large butts. are part of the large butt industrial complex. small butts. are part of the small butt industrial complex. there are different industries. and there are different industrial complexes. that's just more or less the way that it is. that is more or less the way that it goes. there is something that i was thinking about.

* * *

sometimes designs put us at odds with one another. sometimes designs intentionally put us at odds with one another. i get that quiet spaces are needed. i remember. i found it difficult to accept a work from home position. because. me neighborhood was just too noisy at the time. it was hard to accept calls. it was hard to concentrate on work. it was hard to focus. sometimes it can be hard to focus. sometimes it can be hard to get things done when it's noisy. does it really enhance your concentration. well. who know. i do. i really do need to make a living. and. right now. i just don't think that i can do that. 

i think. it's a conspiracy on the part of the sell things industrial complex. i think that it's part of the industrial goods industrial complex. you have a problem. and we have the solution. i do not want all old things. i want all new things. i don't want a single new thing. i want all old things. i do not want anything other than high prices antiques that are sold by the most respectable antique dealers. and that's the only thing that i want. antiques. antiques. respectable. respectable. 

i remember. there were a few times when i worked in an office setting. and. it was noisy. and. in those cases. i was the noisy one.

* * *

i'm trying to compile my posts for Letters from Sanford Street. and this is the kind of thing that will take some time. what else was i trying to do? well. there was something that i needed to work on, but for some reason. it seems to have slipped my mind. i don't know how to deal with this kind of thing. it's possible that. he might just be trying to get an interview done or something. i have no idea. but he just left. and now this is easier.

i get. i understand that we don't always have our own private work spaces. we don't all have our own offices. and. these quite spaces are really needed. i get that.

part of the reason that i do conduct business. i do work from home when as far as work pertains to Chestnut + Hazel. is because i really don't have money for an office. not right now. any maybe the work from home thing does come with opportunities that can change things.

i think about the people who started businesses in their dorm room. or people who started businesses in their garage.

* * *

it doesn't take long for quiet spaces to become loud spaces. quiet spaces. everyone needs them. i think this guy is from the walking advertisement industrial complex.

* * *

i have to look for something. i have to look for a position. not because i need the money, but because it's relevant to what i want to accomplish. but the only think i really want to accomplish is to have more money.

* * *

i liquidated nearly everything in my robinhood account. i don't think that i would have ever done that. really. i thought that i would just be able to hold down a job. but i actually can't. i can't hold down a job. everyone picks on me. and this is true no matter where i work.

i have to think about what my next moves are. because this is a nightmare. i don't know if i'll be able to find work. or what. or what kind of work or employment i should be looking for.

* * *

alright. well I guess that's over. what a total nightmare. but right now. i really don't know what to do for work.

* * *

it wasn't too far back that i really felt that things were getting better. but they continue to be a disaster. what the hell do i need to do.

* * *

These last few days have been extremely challenging for me. Everything feels like a kind of sensation overload, and I have to look for work, again.

* * *


Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
9m
make a reference to the original. make an attribution. and make a contribution by making a slight change.

think about the original sin of mankind. make a slight change. then make a contribution of your own. you'll have fun. but this assertion is not guaranteed.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
12m
have you ever tasted how so many things taste similar to one another. this one iPhone had a very similar taste to this generic smart phone i was licking earlier. can you taste the difference? i couldn't! i'm embarrassed and i feel like i have no taste.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
14m
maybe we can collect all of the artifacts that the people all over the universe are collecting. if others collect them. then we too should collect them. in many ways. this is a good thing. in other ways. it's something other than a good thing.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
15m
there is an ongoing twitter conflict between the freudians and the hubbardians. this sort of thing will never end. is it all in your mind. or is it all in your head. this debate will never end.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
16m
orange juice is made from squeezed oranges. lemonade is made from squeeze lemons.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
there really is no such thing as a free lunch. but these tweet is free. 

eat my tweet.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
i met a man from an antique land who said. that upon his ball sack. these cock rings appear.

i told him it's wrong to use a cock ring for his ball sack. it's better to use a ball ring.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
what color are your balls. well. you wouldn't know unless you opened your scrotum and checked.

and don't think you can trick me by painting your balls. or dying them red. neptune is an even bluer big ball with a ball ring.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
sputnik was the first man made ball of steel to circle an even greener. and even bluer ball. the earth is a big blue ball.

think of the white ball. and think of the red ball. tonight. we dine at the pub. tonight we play pool.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
balls. inside of an even bigger. translucent ball. and your balls are numbered. 

because we're playing bingo. what did you think we were doing.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
balls. inside of a netted sack.

i think. therefore. that these are onions.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
and on that pedestal. massive stone balls appear.

and on those pedestals. these massive stone balls appear.

do they have names. I don't think they do.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
i think. i dont really know. spam. maybe. ham. maybe. green apples and spam. what do you think.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
large balls. stone balls. concrete spheres mounted on cubes outside of city hall.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
everything is a headache. and everything else is a nightmare.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
but everything is kind of uncertain. onions and maybe some kind of sauce.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
pencils and pens and notebooks. a laptop a tablet. maybe a new phone.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
pencils and pens and notebooks. a laptop a tablet. maybe a new phone.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
... well. i guess she's off the market now. and i guess its no skin off my cock.

#megamatzoballs
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
... she said something about the beach and a fish net g string and a large otter. and sand. it gets everywhere. even a woman's crotch. and even a one as unbelievably tight as it gets.

#megamatzoballs
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
well. um. if you want to know the truth. im actually part of the team investigating you know who. and. it. um. it honestly felt like she had sand in her crotch. fine grain sand. gently abrasive. good. but still. she had a sand crotch.

#megamatzoballs

Annotation to Notes from Arlington # 65

This was written during my June Road trip

Postcards from Tennessee # 1 

...

Photo Dump

...

Butter is not the Answer # 19

...

 # 19

...

Butter is not the Answer # 18

I bought a carton of egg nog and drank it all. I'm kind of just hanging out in my car and I'm probably going to go back in and get something else. There's nothing to do at home, but I'm not bored to the point that I really want to go prowl the streets. I think that I've taken care of most of the stuff, the preliminary stuff related to relocating, I have to change my addresses in my accounts first, then once I have statements, then I can go to the Nevada DMV to request a Nevada Driver's License, and then I can request Nevada Vehicle Registration.

When I think about it, I wonder what it would have been like to stay in Gallup, New Mexico, if I would have started a life out there. It wouldn't have been clear to me what I would have done for work, or if there really was any work out there for me to do. I'm still so unsure about this whole thing about being back in Nevada.

...

I ended up buying a new nail clipper when I went to the grocery store. There was one thing that was interesting when I went to the grocery store: there were large sections of the store that had locked cabinets. Even though the neighborhood I lived in when I was living in Arlington, TX was a neighborhood that I would think of as being, like a destitute neighborhood, I just didn't see as many things locked up in cabinets.

I changed the title series from "Postcards from Tennessee" to "Butter is not the Answer" and even though the title doesn't really follow conventional capitalization rules, I really don't want to capitalize "is not" and so I won't be capitalizing those words. There also might be an issue with this title change as well, but I'll worry about that later.

I updated my address on most things that I use regularly, but what else do I need to update my address on? I think that I've done it on most things. I returned my apartment key to the land lady. I closed my utilities contract with the energy provider. I mailed my mailbox key back to the Post Office.

...

Places that I think about. I might not see them again, but places that I've been to, that I might not see again, that I think about. Gallup, New Mexico, Somerville, Tennessee, and La Vergne, Tennessee.

...

Butter is not the Answer # 18

These things have not been here 
the whole time, and they have 
not been the best of the best, and 
they have not been the sticks of the butter.

She asked me to send a photograph
of me, stroking a stick of butter, and
I had to tell the girl that it wasn't
really what she was after, and she
really did not want me to send her
a photograph
of me stroking a stick of butter.

What she really wanted was a video
of me making a duck bill with my hand
and sticking my duck bill hand into
a bowl of butter, sticks of butter
are not the answer!

...

808 E Sanford ST
APT 232
Arlington, TX 76011

...

906 N Chestnut St
Cameron, MO 64429

...

"Butter is not the Answer # 18" by Chestnut + Hazel

...


You

...


These things have not been apparent, they have been obvious.

...

📮5892 Losee RD STE 132 PMB 176, North Las Vegas, NV 89081-6200 📧info@chestnutandhazel.com ‎‎☎+1-816-724-5293

...

Butter is not the Answer # 17

Yeah, I really don't know what to do. I don't have any specific plans for the future, and maybe I should just leave it that way. Maybe I should just go with the flow until something comes up, or an opportunity comes up. 

These are basically the things I need in Life to Eat the
butter, but I already established that Butter is not the answer, and
yet you did not listen to me.

Stay where the people are rather than
going to that place where the invisible
people are. That's where the nest is and
where the birds go.

...

Yeah, I really don't know what to do. I don't have any specific plans for the future, and maybe I should just leave it that way. Maybe I should just go with the flow until something comes up, or an opportunity comes up.

...

Annotations to the Post "T innocuous post 24" written on 10/13/2022, original post was written in August of 2020.

In this post I mention that I may have seen someone famous, but I have no idea who it was. I think that I saw the lead singer to one of the alternative bands that I used to listen to as a kid, and honestly, that I still listened to as I got older.

...

T innocuous post 24

...

T innocuous post 24


I could have sworn that i just saw. Someone famous. But maybe it was just. someone normal. 

...

Well, I guess I can think of today as the date that I've moved to Las Vegas. Today is October 8th, 2022

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 17 & Butter is not the Answer # 17

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 17 & 

...

britney lights is a search term that came up in the search terms leading to this blog section. I don't even know what the hell britney lights has to do with my blog. I looked up. I did a web search of what britney lights is, and it refers to a hard core porn actress who I've never done a movie with. EVER.

...

https://www.imdb.com/name/nm9675348/?nmdp=1&

https://www.bing.com/ck/a?!&&p=7539dd3d492a5facJmltdHM9MTY2NTYxOTIwMCZpZ3VpZD0zMDczZWZhYS0zM2Q5LTZkM2MtMDgzZS1mZTUyMzJhYzZjY2EmaW5zaWQ9NTI0MQ&ptn=3&hsh=3&fclid=3073efaa-33d9-6d3c-083e-fe5232ac6cca&psq=britney+lights+chestnut+and+hazel&u=a1aHR0cDovL3d3dy5jaGVzdG51dGFuZGhhemVsLmNvbS8yMDE5Lw&ntb=1

https://www.blogger.com/britney%20lights

https://www.bing.com/search?q=britney+lights+chestnut+and+hazel&qs=n&Search+%7b0%7d+for+%7b1%7d%2cSearch+work+for+%7b0%7d%2c%25eManage+Your+Search+History%25E&sp=-1&pq=britney+lights+chestnut+and+hazel&sc=10-33&sk=&cvid=43225E3887484E9D8CC233976B037014&ghsh=0&ghacc=0&ghpl=&first=5&FORM=PORE

...

Butter is not the Answer

I think that I'm going to change the name of this post from "Butter is not the Answer" to. well. I have no idea.

...

Notes on Life after Arlington

...

Poem

Butter is not the Answer # 17

These are basically the things I need in Life to Eat the
butter, but I already established that Butter is not the answer, and
yet you did not listen to me.

...

https://capitalizemytitle.com/style/Chicago/

...

https://www.bing.com/search?q=Notes%20on%20Life%20After%20Arlington%20site:capitalizemytitle.com&FORM=QBDCRD

...

📮 5892 Losee Road Suite # 132 Private Mail Box # 176, North Las Vegas, Nevada 89081-6200 
📧 info@chestnutandhazel.com ‎‎‎‎‎☎ +1-816-724-5293

...

📮5892 Losee RD STE 132 PMB 176, North Las Vegas, NV 89081-6200 📧info@chestnutandhazel.com ‎‎☎+1-816-724-5293

... 

 Butter is not the Answer # 16 .... The price of gasoline is ridiculously high in Las Vegas. I read that OPEC+ is cutting production in order to increase oil prices, and I'm sure that there are other variables as well. The gasoline prices that I encountered during my road trips was closer to 3.50 per gallon, and this was throughout the mid-west. It's just really high in Las Vegas. I was looking for my nail clipper earlier, but I couldn't find it. I checked all my luggage and my car, and I must have lost it or left it somewhere. I need to keep my nails short. it's difficult to use my phone with long nails. I have a bunch of stuff that I have to get rid of. For one reason or another I developed a habit of buying hammers or different designs and styles. I won't use most of these ever. I have no use for these. Stay where the people are rather than going to that place where the invisible people are. That's where the nest is and where the birds go. ... Postcards from Tennessee # 16 ... I have this issue where, I still come across the: ilovekristin@chestnutandhazel.com email, even in places where I really don't think I set it up. It happened just a few minutes ago. I've been using info@chestnutandhazel.com most of the time when setting up new accounts that require an email. ... https://dmv.nv.gov/newresident.htm

...

Butter is not the Answer # 16

...

The price of gasoline is ridiculously high in Las Vegas. I read that OPEC+ is cutting production in order to increase oil prices, and I'm sure that there are other variables as well. The gasoline prices that I encountered during my road trips was closer to 3.50 per gallon, and this was throughout the mid-west. It's just really high in Las Vegas.

I was looking for my nail clipper earlier, but I couldn't find it. I checked all my luggage and my car, and I must have lost it or left it somewhere. I need to keep my nails short. it's difficult to use my phone with long nails.

I have a bunch of stuff that I have to get rid of. For one reason or another I developed a habit of buying hammers or different designs and styles. I won't use most of these ever. I have no use for these.

Stay where the people are rather than
going to that place where the invisible
people are. That's where the nest is and
where the birds go.

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 16

...

I have this issue where, I still come across the: ilovekristin@chestnutandhazel.com email, even in places where I really don't think I set it up. It happened just a few minutes ago. I've been using info@chestnutandhazel.com most of the time when setting up new accounts that require an email.

...

Butter is not the Answer # 15

I think about times in my life where I'm going through the kinds of things I'm going through right now. I don't know how to describe how it's different this time, but it is different. It's different because things are confusing; I'm confused about how to deal with; I'm confused about how to move forward, and I'm confused about what to do next, but things aren't really all that bleak right now, things really aren't all that hopeless. Things are just confusing. I just really don't know what to do next.

I think that I'm just going to operate under the assumption that Nevada is where I'm going to be for now, and I'll just go through with getting a Nevada Driver's License, and Nevada Plates.

...

What I'm trying to figure out right now is whether or not to get a Nevada Driver's License, and Nevada Plates. These are things that should be taken care of after moving to Nevada, but I'm not sure if I've really moved here. I'm not really sure if I've really "moved" to Nevada. 

...

A few hours ago, I went to the grocery store and bought a rotisserie chicken, and an order of potato salad, but I'm just not hungry enough to finish all of this. I have been gaining weight, and I have been getting fatter, but I've been a lot less hungry as well. I really need to get back to work. These last few months have been kind of a waste of time, if I think of them in terms of how they've added to my overall progress in life, but they've been interesting, and sometimes I think that maybe these interesting events in life, these interesting life events, do add to a person's overall life progress.

...

what the hell do I have to think of right now? i'm just worried about the future, but not in a way, where, i'm freaking out or losing my mind, or, where i feel like bad things are on the horizon. i guess i'm anxious about the future, and about what to do in the coming months. i start work on the 22nd, i don't anticipate anything going wrong. the idea of going back to dallas / fort worth and going back to school is somewhere in the back of my mind, but what is the most intelligent thing for me to do?

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 15 

...

Poem

Butter is not the Answer # 17

say whatever you
want about whatever
your opinion is, and when
you say it you can feel free
to say it at the top of
your lungs, but whatever
you say, and whatever
your point of view
is. just know that 
butter is not the answer.
it's not, it's really not the
answer.

...

Poem

Butter is not the Answer # 16

it's possible to drown most
of the problems of life, the struggles
the ups and downs, and even 
many of the sadnesses you face
with olive oil, and wine, and whine
but just be aware
of the fact that butter is not the answer.
you think that crispy chicken is 
created with the buttery goodness
of something other than lard and
hydrogenated soybean oil?
Think Again! It's something else!
not butter! butter is not the answer!

...

Poem

Butter is not the Answer # 15

there aren't very many questions
and there are even fewer qualified
answers to those questions and there
are even fewer answers that are valid
and true
and you know with
great certainty that
butter is not the answer

Part of what I'm doing right now
is cutting out things that really
aren't related to this post.
butter is not the answer, 
and some of the stuff is old
tweets that, in retrospect,
were kind of disturbing.

Butter Is Not The Answer,
when you write things that
are disturbing. or rather
when I write things that are
disturbing; I won't always know
at that particular moment that 
what I wrote was off, or odd. 
BUTTER IS NOT THE ANSWER!

...

I while ago, and this was during one of my road trips, I was at a kind of shopping center, I wouldn't call it a mall because it wasn't all indoors, and I wouldn't call it an outlet shopping center, because, it really wasn't focused on discounts, but whatever it was, I really didn't go shopping, I spent my time going to the restaurants there. I think I went to three different restaurants, and at the last restaurant I went to there was this guy, an older man, and he was with his wife. I ordered a shot of gin, and, out of nowhere he says something like: "Gin, I haven't had gin since I was in my early twenties and vomited all over the place."

He was obviously trying to get a reaction out of me. I don't know what happened afterward, but there was kind of a discussion back and forth, and he eventually left, I'm not sure if he ordered anything, or if he was just loitering at the bar, pretending that he was going to spend a lot of money, and then, used his kind of, unpleasantness as a kind of pretext or reason for not ordering anything.

...

but I've noticed that over the past few months, that people at restaurants can be kind of. They interact with me in a way that suggests that they really don't want me there. or they want me to leave. I'm just there, and I'm just fucking eating.

...

but I think about different times, and different places that i've felt like i was being pushed out of. some things are related, and some things aren't. and trying to figure out which things are related, and which aren't related is something i kind of have to figure out.

...

I think of iteration in engineering
as being similar to evolution in biology

one benefit to smaller teams and individualized
development projects is that the the iterations

can progress in isolation, and the products created
iterate divergent from a kind of mainstream, 

...

alright. done. i really didn't give 
the computer shopping thing too 
much thought. or time. but i need 
to also look at laptop computers. 
i think during this search. i focused 
on tablet computers. and then I realized
that I would rather wear a hat on my
head. so that's what i did. he also seemed
like a total jerk when he called me asking
me to appear at his office in person.

...

is there anything that I need to do? 
yes! okay. so I remember. i have 
to look at computers for school.

...

what the hell was it that 
i was thinking about?
well. I'll tell you:

I was thinking about how butter
is clearly not the answer to your 
problem, a problem known as 
making bland and boring and
tasteless food. that's your problem
and honestly, butter is not the answer.

...

is there anything that i need to do today? 
i checked my UTA email, but i don't think 
that i would have had a response 
over the weekend.

...

is there anything that I need to fucking do today? i spent most of the day goofing off. i stayed up late the previous night and i've hardly had any sleep. well. except for the fact that i slept for most of the day today. but before i slept most of the day today. i didn't have much sleep.


What I'm I dealing with right now? I tried withdrawing from the MSQF program at UTA, but it's not as simple as clicking a button and withdrawing, and dropping out, if it was that easy, that's probably what I would have done; on the one hand, I don't really want to drop out, and on the other hand, I don't really see myself going back to the Dallas / Fort Worth area.

I really don't see myself ever going back to the Dallas/ Fort Worth area, but it's possible that one circumstance or another might lead me right back there. It was one circumstance or another that brought me to the Dallas / Fort Worth area in the first place, maybe one circumstance or another might bring me back there, but I really don't see that happening.

Who knows what could happen between now and December? Anything in the universe could happen between now and December, and so it might make sense for me to keep my options open, and that's kind of why I'm seeking "incompletes" for my courses, rather than withdrawing from the courses completely and dropping out of the MSQF program. 

While I'm here in Las Vegas I should probably find work. One of the issues about finding work here in Las Vegas is that once I start looking for work and once I start really setting myself up here in Las Vegas, it becomes less and less likely that I'll return to Dallas / Fort Worth. I didn't really have anything going on for me, other than graduate school, that was really keeping me in Dallas / Fort Work, and I was facing a number of issues in addition to not really being able to get anything done in terms of course work and in terms of studying, I had a number of problems going on that I really would rather not mention.

...

I might need to get an emissions inspection for Nevada, but I'm not really sure. I bought my car new; I registered it in Missouri, then transferred registration to Texas, and now I'm trying to register my car in Nevada, and I'm not sure what the "three registrations exemption" refers to. Even though I've registered in two different states, and this Nevada move will be a third registration, I'm thinking that the number of registrations refers to the number of different times a vehicle has been registered by different owners, and not by the same owner re-registering in different states multiple times.

...

With the Nevada DMV website down there isn't really anything for me to work on, but, even if it was up, there isn't really much for me to work on right now. I think that I have whatever I need to get registered and set up in Nevada, and I think that I really just have to wait until I start work.

I was thinking about setting up an online store to sell the stuff I don't need, but like this is mostly just used stuff that I need to sell. I could donate it all, but I don't get the experience of setting up an online store, though. I think that I'll try it. 

...

This is actually the best name I can come up with for the series. The first post had something in the way of a million different names, I kept changing it, but I think that I'll keep this name and leave it this way. I think that I started with Postcards from Tennessee, but that title series seemed inappropriate because I really wasn't in Tennessee for more than a few days, and I only wrote a handful of posts while I was there, and then, Butter is not the Answer was amusing, but I don't know what to do with that one. When it comes to figuring out like, everything else, I'm kind of lost. I really don't know what to do, or, I really don't have any kind of grand plan or anything.

...

Dropping my classes at UTA and withdrawing from the MSQF program is kind of rolling at this point. I thought briefly that, somehow it may have been possible to. I have no idea, stay enrolled, and then attend next semester, and hope for a different outcome, but the odds are really against me. I mean I would have to drive from Las Vegas to Dallas and back once a week if I pursued that course of action, or maybe I would live in Dallas, or maybe I would relocated right back to Texas after relocating to Nevada? A lot of those ideas simply weren't workable.

Even though I set up an appointment to visit the Nevada DMV, it's actually possible to just walk in, without an appointment. I don't know what to do about the whole emissions inspection crap. I don't really think that I actually need to get one, I think that my vehicle is exempt, but I don't want to spend all day at the DMV waiting in line, just to be told to come back, and spend a whole day waiting in line again because I actually do need an emissions inspection.

Reading my horoscope. There is really no consistent message from the various horoscope writers. Sometimes I just look for something encouraging. I remember doing this a while ago, but what I remember is that nothing that I read from the horoscopes really leads me in one direction or another. One horoscope will advise me against doing such and such activity, and another will advise me to be proactive and get involved in such and such activity that the previous horoscope just advised against pursuing. So. Whatever.

...

This is actually pretty cool. My work shoes arrived. Um, the other thing that was pretty interesting was that my Assumed Name filings have been registered with Tarrant County, but there seems to be a delay with the Assumed Name filings that I submitted registrations for the with Secretary of State of Texas. A lot of this stuff is kind of unnecessary, I don't really have any buyers for any of my writing, or my content, or anything creative that I've produced.

...

I legitimately don't know what the hell to do. I'm really fucking. Like lost here. The best thing. The best idea I have right now is to wait and see, maybe something will pop up. Just work and get settled in. I'm hoping for overtime, it makes it easier to save a larger percentage of my earnings, but I'm thinking, maybe, maybe I might do some gig work or something. Or find a part time second job. I'm irritated that the UTA thing is basically over, but I don't really think that I'm done pursuing graduate school. I'm where to go from here.

...

This is actually pretty cool. My work shoes arrived. Um, the other thing that was pretty interesting was that my Assumed Name filings have been registered with Tarrant County, but there seems to be a delay with the Assumed Name filings that I submitted registrations for the with Secretary of State of Texas. A lot of this stuff is kind of unnecessary, I don't really have any buyers for any of my writing, or my content, or anything creative that I've produced.

...























































































So, even though I haven't lived in California in a long time, technically I'm a legal resident of California, I haven't lived in any other state for longer than five fucking years. 1 in Nevada, 2 in Missouri, 2.5 in Texas.

hum. well, uta doesn't have a creative writing program. there is an mfa program, but it seems to be for studio art or visual art. i'm working on an application to UNLV, the earliest semester for admission to the mfa program is fall 2023

...

Sometimes when I'm watching documentaries on historical battles I get into this mood where I want to waste time playing Total War on my computer. I know that playing computer games really doesn't accomplish anything, but so many things in life don't really accomplish anything anyway. So, what does it matter? My computer was running really slow, and it continues to run slow under certain circumstances, but I messed around with it and turned off a bunch of programs that were running in the background, and it seems to be working better. I was seriously considering buying a new computer, but I don't think that I will unless it runs horribly slow.

...

























...

















...

I have to tell you this because
it may be
relevant to
the question

You seek to answer and it may
be what you
need to know
to satiate the
obsessions that

are eating away at your mind and
every thought
you have:
GUESS WHAT! 
BUTTER! IS!
NOT THE!
ANSWER!!!

...

Everything is kind of a disaster right now. Really. everything is a total nightmare disaster kind of ninth circle of hell situation right now. I don't know where to go from here, and I really don't know what direction to take things to make things better, but I just don't know what the hell to do right now. This is a nightmare. My thinking right now is that I have to stop and restrategize.

Anyway. I do have something funny to say, and it's this: I feel an affinity with UK Prime Minister Liz Truss; I dropped out of grad school after six weeks! I just was not able. To accomplish a fucking thing. There are a number of lingering issues with withdrawing from the MSQF program at UTA and it's really just not as simple or as easy as saying: "look, I fucking quit!" In fact, based on the particular situation I'm facing right now, I basically asked for my request to withdraw from the MSQF program to be reversed.

When I think about these last four years, from the time I left the Las Vegas area, until now, where I'm back in the Las Vegas area, I think about the two years I spent in Missouri, and about the two years I spent in Texas, I feel like in either of those two year blocks of time I really would have been happy just working and saving money, and eventually, doing something, but what? I have no idea. In both cases everything I saved more or less evaporated and I had to start again. 

There are times when things are okay, and times when things start not going well, and then times when things start to go to hell again.

...

I reverted the layout to something similar to how the blog used to be. I just didn't really like the new template. I did manage to clean a few things up, and I think that I'm going to retitle things as I come across them, and maybe change a few things here and there. I don't really know what I want to do with this thing. There is a possible thing that's going to be an issue in the near future, unless something changes, but this is potentially a disaster, a near term disaster. I don't even really want to go into details right now because this is really bad. Potentially. but who knows. It's never really possible to completely leave things behind, sometimes there's always something that goes with you. There are always a few things that come with you even after you go. Which is kind of a nightmare. I think. Well, we will find out. I'm deleting things even though I've previously been averse to deleting things. From my blog. I mean.
 
...

...

The other day I was thinking that it's really nice to be tired because it's really nice to fall asleep as a result of being tired, rather than falling asleep because I have nothing better to do.

I want to go into the details about the issues I'm facing in terms of UTA and the DOE student loans and all the nonsense I have to deal with. I'm just finding it difficult to explain. I'm pissed about the way things turned out this first semester, but I'm not totally burned to the point of being completely deterred from going to graduate school.

There are certain things that I need right now, but that I can hold off on. I need an oil change, and tires. she's cute, and. she's kind of talking to herself. and it seems like a very engaging conversation. maybe she's singing.

I'm kind of tired. There was an opportunity to sign up for overtime after the end of my shift this morning, so I signed up. In a way I kind of want to take it easy, but really, the best thing to do is take any overtime that I can get and get my finances back in order. I'm sure there will be time to relax later. I think about how I kind of didn't really do anything for the last several months, and I think that if I could have done things differently, I would have done nothing in a way that would be more enjoyable.

...

I was so tired toward the end of my shift last night. I haven't worked in five months or so, and I guess my body just needs to get back into the rhythm of working again. At the end of my shift I went to the gas station to get food, and I was just shocked with how expensive it was. I had three hot dogs and a soda refill, and I guess I won't be going to that gas station again, for breakfast anyway. I still might need gas, and who knows when or where I'll need gas. I'm sure that my life is going to get on track again, but this is going to be a long journey back to, you know, where ever the hell I was financially. I think about those times after a natural disaster when people rebuild their towns and homes and cities, and I think about my life and how I'm rebuilding my life after this disaster that happened over the last few months of my life. Disaster. Rebuild. Grow. Live. Disaster. Rebuild. Grow. Live.

I'm thinking about something, and this something is stressing me out right now.

I'm at work, and my mobile service provided doesn't really have much of a connection in this part of town.

...

This is where
you are and 
where you will
always be because

this is where the 
rainbow ends
and this is where
the pot of gold is
and this is where
leprechauns hang
out and here you
can tell me what

you are looking for in terms of
gold and silver and there was nothing
there for anyone to do and there was
nothing interesting that may have been
there and you can see what the end of
the taste is and you can sense what
you continue to feel. why do you feel
that way? ask yourself and you will
come up with an answer, but it might
or it might not be the right answer.

...

I really want to buy 
some new clothes 
right now, but I just 
don't need any.

and I don't know if this is the
kind of thing that I should do
anyway to elevate my mood.

I think that there are times when
I skimp on simple pleasures, only
to really obliterate my money on
other things that I really do not
enjoy or appreciate or even really
want to spend any of my money on.

...

Outside it sounds like
it's raining, but when I
go outside it turns out
that it's not raining. It's
just the wind blowing
through the leave of
the trees, and the sound
that this process makes
resembles the sound of
rain. That's what it was.
It wasn't butter melting
on a stove nor was it rain.
it was just the wind 
blowing through the 
leaves of the trees.

...

I wanted to tell you something, but I never had the chance to do so because I was driven off by some, well, I was driven off by the lady at the bar who told me that she was going to have to ask me to leave. She told me that she was going to have to ask me to leave, and I'm not sure why, I think that the issue was that my nails were dirty, and I think that the issue was that the brunette was there, yeah, that one, but who knows, who knows? Nobody knows because no one knows who the brunette is? she is someone that nobody knows because her identity was reduced to something other than what it used to be the other day. She has a new name. It was funny seeing that Gordo's Barbecue was shut down. I liked that place.

...

Why do I keep looking at
the very reason that I
ever got started

Why.
why do I keep looking?
an idea? a reason?
a thought?
what?

how do I express what.
how do I put this into
words? 

maybe the answer is never!
and maybe that's the way it
goes! anyway.

in other news: personal news
of course! i'm thinking that i'll
just settle the tab and close out.
i mean. as far as school goes.

...

that was the way it happened. and I'm not really feeling all that great about it.

I'm ultra-tired. I have two more days of the work week, but I'm tired. Well. I'm not really tired, it's just that I haven't fallen asleep since I came back from work. I can't take time-off, I can't take time off in general, but especially between now and April. I basically have my year planned out: nothing interesting between now and April, then from April to August still nothing interesting, then it's winter. It's 2023, and this is the one-millionth time I've had to put things back together after everything fell apart.

...

I'm thinking mainly about April. This is one of those cases where I'm anticipating coming in slightly short of my goal, but it does seem possible that I might make it if I squeeze, and maybe get a little lucky.

...

In terms of my finances. The main thing is getting through until April. Tax season. Then I have to focus on paying off my credit cards. I'm not sure how long that will take. There hasn't been much overtime lately, and honestly, there have been several times when I've wanted to take time off but didn't because I kind of can't really afford to.

Lean times.

I don't anticipate getting a tax refund. During the months I wasn't working in 2022 I was basically running on my IRA money, and I'm sure I'm looking at a fat penalty. Nightmare.

...

Repayment on my student loans begins in April. Nightmare.

...

I want to take a few things to the thrift store donation center. I've been meaning to do this, but I just haven't gotten around to it.

...

Someone I used to work with at the tractor warehouse died. He died about a year and a half ago. I looked him up online, but I couldn't find a cause of death or anything, only that he died at the hospital. It seems that he was working at a car dealership in town at the time.

I wasn't really thinking about him or anything, it's just that I was looking through my old Facebook memories and I came across a post with a few likes from my old co-workers from the tractor warehouse, and then came across a post mentioning his death about a year ago, and then I did a web search and came across his obituary.

...

About a week ago I went to Lee's Sandwiches to get a Banh Mi sandwich. I ended up ordering and eating three of them. The location is half an hour away from where I live, so, even though there have been other times when I've wanted to eat one, I simply didn't do it because it would be an hour in driving time to get a sandwich.

...

I bought my new computer primarily to play Victoria 3, but I really haven't gotten around to buying Victoria 3 or even playing it. Most of the time I've spent playing on my new computer I've spent playing Civilization 6. 

...

I'm worried about the future. I anticipate that my budget is going to be extremely tight through April, and then continue to be extremely tight after that while I pay off my credit cards, and then find out if these student loans are going to be forgiven or not. I still have a credit card balance from the road trip I took to Louisiana back in February of 2022.

...

There are two things that I have to manage in my personal life, and they sometimes seem to be at odds. One is my energy levels, and the other is my mood. I try to elevate my mood by staying up after work and playing on the computer, but this reduces the amount of time I spend sleeping, but if I sleep for the full 11 or whatever hours of free time I have, then I seem to be grouchy, but if I'm tired, I also end up grouchy.

...

These last few weeks have been really long. Long hours each week. I did kind of want to take the day off when a notice for a VTO opportunity came up, but since I put in so many hours this week, I don't really want to take off an overtime day, a day that would be entirely overtime pay. 

...


I finally came around to buying a new laptop computer. I spent about 550. It's an Acer that I bought on Amazon. I wanted a new computer to play Victoria 3, but I have a whole bunch of games in my Steam library that I haven't played because whatever computer I had when I bought them wasn't powerful enough to play them.

I think that the last time I bought a computer that required some shopping was in 2016 when I was at the Littoral house, just before moving into Sonata's. I ruined it in 2018 at some point when I was in Missouri, I fucked up the keyboard, but the computer still worked, and then I bought a replacement a few years later, I think in 2020 just before leaving Missouri.

...

I bought this mango smoothie that I thought was just a regular bottle of juice and I was shocked that it was four dollars. It honestly wasn't worth four dollars in my opinion. There's this brand of juice products that I really like that I get used to buying back in Arlington. I think it's called Jumex, and their juices come in paperboard boxes.

...

I've taken time off here and there over the past few weeks, just a few hours before the end of the shift if I was feeling fabulously exhausted. My phone really doesn't seem to have a good connection anywhere I go around here, so I have trouble doing any blogging, but I really don't have anything interesting to update on. I really don't have anything going on.

...

📮5892 Losee RD STE 132 PMB 176, North Las Vegas, NV 89081-6200 📧 info@chestnutandhazel.com ‎‎☎+1-816-724-5293

...





Today is the last day of the work week for me.

...

I have today off, and I'm just getting regular stuff done, reviewing my finances, doing laundry, looking at my work schedule. I want to close a number of my accounts, but at the same time, I don't want to close them. The benefit is that I would be better able to manage my money if I had fewer accounts, and if I could consolidate and concentrate my positions, but, I really don't have a ton of money anyway.

...

I'm really fucking tired. I had to buy a new phone there other day because my previous phone broke, the battery just wouldn't charge up anymore. This is probably the first phone I've ever replaced for this reason. I don't know why I'm tired. Well, I do know why I'm tired: I didn't get much sleep. I went to sleep as soon as I got home, and I felt fully rested as soon as I woke up a few hours later, but I didn't go back to sleep, so I'm running on maybe 3 hours of rest.

...

I want to buy a new laptop. Well, I don't really want to buy a new laptop, what I really want is to play a new computer game: Victoria 3, but I would need a new laptop in order to play Victoria 3. This is another thing that reminds me of the last time I was in Las Vegas four years ago: I wanted to play Grand Theft Auto 5, and I remember needing a new laptop. I didn't buy a new laptop. I bought a console instead.

...

it's the start of another work week. a few hours ago i really felt like putting in time off. i dont have enough for a full shift, but i could have put in a few hours, but right now im doing okay.

...

I went to the Nevada DMV and completed my Nevada Driver's License Request and Vehicle Registration. There was some kind of confusion at the appointments desk where the clerk wasn't sure if I had the correct documents to complete my Vehicle Registration, but the clerk that actually handled the paperwork was ultimately able to process my Vehicle Registration for Nevada.

There was also a kind of question about personalized / vanity plates, and nothing that I wanted was available. I really just wanted 33507, this is supposed to be LOSEE, but I guess it wasn't available or something. There were about 9 other plate numbers I had, but none of them were available.

The Nevada DMV had me surrender my Texas License Plates. The Texas DMV said I could just keep them, but, I guess I had to surrender them.

I ended up taking the night off from work. I was really tired. I think that I got home from the DMV at around 2 PM, and I felt like I power napped because I was kind of ready to head out to work at 6 PM like I usually do, but, for whatever reason I took the night off.

I really don't know what to do about this whole. Nevada. Thing. I continue to run through the last few months I spent in Texas in my mind, and I really can't pinpoint why things happened the way they did, why things turned out the way they did, but I could swear that everything was just going straight to hell for me there, as though I had no other choice but to get out of there. It just wasn't going well, I don't know what else to say, but then again, I'm not sure Texas was really ever easy to begin with.

...

About my breakfast at the Cannery the other morning: the style of the fish and chips reminded me of this one place I used to go to in Sunnyvale, California on El Camino Real. Someone once clarified different styles to me before, but just two, and this style isn't like either style. I don't really remember. I have to look this up and write it down.

...

I went to the Cannery Casino this morning to have breakfast. I went here a few days back really early in the morning, I want to say 2:00 AM or something in the morning, and none of the restaurants at the Cannery were open, but the Victory Café was open this morning when I went. I ordered Fish & Chips and a soda, and I spent 28 dollars, which is more than I really wanted to spend, given my current financial picture.

I was originally on my way to the Golden Corral, but I figured I'd check out the Cannery, since I tried to go there last time, but it wasn't open.

I have the hiccups really bad right now.

I have a new spreadsheet. I remember the one that I made when I first came to Vegas in 2018, There were several revisions over the years. The current one I use is focused mainly on totaling my assets, and my liabilities (debts) and I have an emphasis on paying down my credit cards. In 2018 I was focusing on planning out each individual paycheck, and throwing whatever was left into the stock market.

I bought socks and a belt.

...

i was craving sun chips earlier, so i went to the grocery store and bought some. they don't seem to be a whole lot less expensive at the grocery store than they are at the cafeteria.

...

I don't really know what to do right now. I'm bored. I was hungry, but I'm not hungry any more. I'm working on my budget on an off, here and there. I have one unusual expense, unusual in the sense that it's a sporadic expense, and it's the driver's license and vehicle registration expense that I'll experience next week.

...

Last day of the work week. I'm trying to think about what to do with my days off.

...

Well, sometimes I think that I haven't accomplished anything, but, maybe it depends on how I look at it. I did register a web domain. I registered a business name, and I registered several copyrights. I went on several road trips.

...

I'm still not really enthusiastic about being back in Las Vegas. I'm unhappy about it. I'm glad I got back in touch with my mom; I haven't really talked to her since I left four years ago, and I'm happy that I'm working again, but I really can't stand being back in Las Vegas. Simply being in Las Vegas is this constant reminder that I haven't really accomplished anything since I fucking left. Nightmare.

...

I still feel like I have way too much stuff. I've gotten rid of most of the stuff I do. Well. Actually. What I mean is. I got rid of quite a bit of stuff that I don't need, but I still have a lot of stuff that I don't really need.

Dress shirts. I haven't needed dress shirts in a long time. But they're not really dressy. so I'm not sure that their dress shirts. I just don't anticipate needing them.

There are other things that I have that I don't really want to throw away, and I really don't want to give away either. but I don't really need them. and I don't really anticipate needing them.

today is the first day of the work week. i had three days off, and I'm trying to think about what i got done during those days off. did i accomplish anything?

...

There's this idea that keeps running through my head over and over again, and, I'm not sure what to do about it.

...

I'm hungry. I went to the gas station around 10 PM and bought a few hot dogs to eat, and I think I bought wings as well, but I'm still hungry, or, rather, right now it's 4 AM in the morning, and I've become hungry again. I'm thinking about how to approach the next year, and, I really just feel like this is going to be a long period, maybe not a long period, but a period of my life where nothing exciting happens. Nothing really exciting ever happens, and I almost want to say that nothing exciting has happened in the four years since I left Las Vegas, I did put together a bunch of money during that time, and that's about as exciting as things went. I just really don't know how to make the best of this return to Las Vegas.

...

There are kind of a few things on my mind right now. I'm optimistic about the future, but I'm also kind of distressed about the future at the same time; or I feel something like, something between feeling distressed and overwhelmed. Sometimes the feeling oscillates between feelings of optimism and distress.

It's November. I don't really know what to think about that. About it being November already.

...

I was thinking about heading out of town, out of the state and picking up a lottery ticket. Sometimes I just feel like. Sometimes I just get excited about the thought of winning the lottery, the Powerball or the Mega Millions jackpot, but, sometimes I think the reason I feel this way is because at one moment or another I might feel like there's just really nothing interesting going on in my life at the moment.

I closed my Cash App, Venmo, and PayPal accounts. I just don't really use them that often any more, and I figured it's better just to close them, and reopen them if I need to use them later in the future. One thing I would hate is for something to happen with those accounts, and have to deal with a huge problem for an account I don't really use, and like I mentioned, I could always reopen accounts with them if I find a use for their services again.

...

There was this feeling I had earlier, like I really felt like hitting the road and going somewhere.

...

I think that I'll work on something right now.

...

What am I thinking about right now? Well, I'm not really thinking much of anything. I got an oil change, and I ended up getting my transmission fluid changed as well. I still want to get my tires changed, but I don't really know how soon I need to do that. I could probably wait until I hit 60,000 miles on my odometer, and that's still a kind of conservative timeline to seek a tire change. The treads look fine.

...

Word Salad

This is where the admittance
starts and I have to tell you:

I never really liked her, she
was just the finest, most beautiful

woman I had ever seen up until
then, and have ever seen since.

There she was: eating leafy greens
out of a container full of leafy greens

and in that moment I thought:
She is the most beautiful woman

I've ever seen.

Remember that there are a number
of ways to protect the information

inside your brain: try not to use a
tin foil hat that fails to match your

hair color or skin tone because it will
be obvious to everyone around you

that you're wearing a
tin foil hat!

The Response

You're an idiot!
I'm mad at you and
I'm not sure I'll ever

get over how irritated I
am with you, maybe
in a million years!

Maybe Longer! Who 
Knows! YOU MIGHT
NEVER BE FORGIVEN!

Why am I so. Why am I. So.
I. I don't know what this is but
sometimes I just feel so unhappy.

and I really just
don't want to say why.
I really don't want to go into
details because I feel so silly
about why I feel so unhappy.

You're a liar.
and you know it.
a real liar and I
really don't like
you! LIAR!

come on give me a break.
I don't do it maliciously!

there are times when
i still really can't get
her out of my head.
in many ways i'm really
fucking sick of it. you
know. that i still think
about her.

I'm sick of it. I really am.
frustrations and struggles
and difficulties and stressors.
I would like things in life
to be easier and I would like
to get more of the things I want.

...











...





...












































Something interesting came in the mail today; it was marketing mail for business checking accounts from Citibank and US Bank, and they were addressed to Chestnut & Hazel. I wouldn't mind setting up business checking accounts for Chestnut + Hazel, but I really don't have any steady income from Chestnut + Hazel yet.

I made an effort set up an account to self publish a book. It would be the Chestnut Street series. I have to take a look at it and see what changes I would make to the text.

It's midnight. I'm hungry, and I don't know where to go to eat.

I went to the Cannery Casino to eat at the Victory Cafe, but it wasn't open. Google Maps said it was open 24 Hrs, but I guess that wasn't accurate, so I ended up at Bourbon Street Bar and Grill. I had wings, but I wasn't too excited about them, they just seemed excessively battered, but I was really hungry and I'm really not sure what other options I had.

Sometimes when I go out to eat I get the feeling that the food was microwaved after being pulled out of a bag from something I could have purchased from the frozen food section of the grocery store.

I went and got an oil change, which was something I've been meaning to do for a while, and when I was getting the oil change, the technician recommended that I get my transmission fluid changed, so I did that as well. I really don't want to spend more than I need to right now, but I know that I've put a hell of a lot of miles on my car over the last few months, so I need to weigh being cautious with my spending against the risks of unexpected car problems from skipping on maintenance now.

...

I have to think. I was thinking about pursuing a graduate certificate in Spanish Translation at UNLV. One issue is that out-of-state tuition would make this cost prohibitive, but it's possible that my time in Nevada during 2018 would count toward my status as a Nevada resident, this is something I have to look into, and I'd probably have to request records from the Nevada DMV.

That UTA thing was a total disaster. I'm trying to squeeze as much out of the experience as I can by going through the course material, but. Yeah, that was a real interesting way to flush $3,500 down the toilet.

I need to explore as many programs at as many universities as I can. I really would prefer an in-person program rather than something remote, or online. I'm still kind of hesitant to look at anything. I'm hesitant to pursue a different graduate program unless I know that it will be the right fit for me. I don't know if there is any possibility of heading back to Texas for one semester, and just taking two classes or whatever, but, who knows.

...

I really want to buy new pants, and a new belt, but I also really want to hold off on doing either, and yet, even though I really want to keep my spending as low as possible, I went out to eat earlier today and I went out for drinks the other day. I went out for drinks the other night, and it was supposed to be a kind of date, but, we didn't end up meeting up. I went to the place she wanted to meet up at, but she wasn't there. I waited for about an hour, and then went home, and like five minutes after I was on my way home, she said she was there, and that I should turn around and come back.

That was discouraging, so I'm going to take a break from online dating. This is the second time I deleted, second or maybe third time I've deleted a dating profile in the last month. I switched accounts for some of my autopay expenses, and I'm kind of just waiting until the switch over becomes active.

...

Queen of the Goths

she's cute, 
and. 
she's kind of talking to herself, 
and. 
it seems like a very 
engaging conversation,
but 
maybe she's singing,
and
she doesn't have a headset on,
so
she's either singing
from memory
or
talking to herself.

...

I settled the account with UTA. That was a fucking pain in the ass. I don't know how many times I've gone over this situation on my blog, but I'll go over it again. I was originally awarded 10500 in student loans, but after withdrawing from the MSQF program, that amount was reduced to about 8500, these are all rough numbers but they're close enough, anyway, I was asked to return 2000 dollars to the University, UTA, and I just remitted the payment of 2000 bucks a few minutes ago. Headache. I really wasn't prepared for this. Anyway. I was really going to put this whole ordeal off for a while, but when I looked into my student loan account, or the account that services my student loans, I noticed that they adjusted the student loan amount from 10500 to 8500, so I figured since the issue that I was worried about most has been fixed, then I guess I'm comfortable settling the balance with UTA. The issue that I was afraid of was paying twice, so to speak, but if the loan servicer adjusted the amount due, then there is no need to worry about paying twice, and that's why I figured I'd settle the tab at UTA.

...

The other day I was thinking that it's really nice to be tired because it's really nice to fall asleep as a result of being tired, rather than falling asleep because I have nothing better to do.

I want to go into the details about the issues I'm facing in terms of UTA and the DOE student loans and all the nonsense I have to deal with. I'm just finding it difficult to explain. I'm pissed about the way things turned out this first semester, but I'm not totally burned to the point of being completely deterred from going to graduate school.

There are certain things that I need right now, but that I can hold off on. I need an oil change, and tires. she's cute, and. she's kind of talking to herself. and it seems like a very engaging conversation. maybe she's singing.

I'm kind of tired. There was an opportunity to sign up for overtime after the end of my shift this morning, so I signed up. In a way I kind of want to take it easy, but really, the best thing to do is take any overtime that I can get and get my finances back in order. I'm sure there will be time to relax later. I think about how I kind of didn't really do anything for the last several months, and I think that if I could have done things differently, I would have done nothing in a way that would be more enjoyable.

...

I was so tired toward the end of my shift last night. I haven't worked in five months or so, and I guess my body just needs to get back into the rhythm of working again. At the end of my shift I went to the gas station to get food, and I was just shocked with how expensive it was. I had three hot dogs and a soda refill, and I guess I won't be going to that gas station again, for breakfast anyway. I still might need gas, and who knows when or where I'll need gas. I'm sure that my life is going to get on track again, but this is going to be a long journey back to, you know, where ever the hell I was financially. I think about those times after a natural disaster when people rebuild their towns and homes and cities, and I think about my life and how I'm rebuilding my life after this disaster that happened over the last few months of my life. Disaster. Rebuild. Grow. Live. Disaster. Rebuild. Grow. Live.

I'm thinking about something, and this something is stressing me out right now.

I'm at work, and my mobile service provided doesn't really have much of a connection in this part of town.

...

This is where
you are and 
where you will
always be because

this is where the 
rainbow ends
and this is where
the pot of gold is
and this is where
leprechauns hang
out and here you
can tell me what

you are looking for in terms of
gold and silver and there was nothing
there for anyone to do and there was
nothing interesting that may have been
there and you can see what the end of
the taste is and you can sense what
you continue to feel. why do you feel
that way? ask yourself and you will
come up with an answer, but it might
or it might not be the right answer.

...

I really want to buy 
some new clothes 
right now, but I just 
don't need any.

and I don't know if this is the
kind of thing that I should do
anyway to elevate my mood.

I think that there are times when
I skimp on simple pleasures, only
to really obliterate my money on
other things that I really do not
enjoy or appreciate or even really
want to spend any of my money on.

...

Outside it sounds like
it's raining, but when I
go outside it turns out
that it's not raining. It's
just the wind blowing
through the leave of
the trees, and the sound
that this process makes
resembles the sound of
rain. That's what it was.
It wasn't butter melting
on a stove nor was it rain.
it was just the wind 
blowing through the 
leaves of the trees.

...

I wanted to tell you something, but I never had the chance to do so because I was driven off by some, well, I was driven off by the lady at the bar who told me that she was going to have to ask me to leave. She told me that she was going to have to ask me to leave, and I'm not sure why, I think that the issue was that my nails were dirty, and I think that the issue was that the brunette was there, yeah, that one, but who knows, who knows? Nobody knows because no one knows who the brunette is? she is someone that nobody knows because her identity was reduced to something other than what it used to be the other day. She has a new name. It was funny seeing that Gordo's Barbecue was shut down. I liked that place.

...

Why do I keep looking at
the very reason that I
ever got started

Why.
why do I keep looking?
an idea? a reason?
a thought?
what?

how do I express what.
how do I put this into
words? 

maybe the answer is never!
and maybe that's the way it
goes! anyway.

in other news: personal news
of course! i'm thinking that i'll
just settle the tab and close out.
i mean. as far as school goes.

...

that was the way it happened. and I'm not really feeling all that great about it.

...

📮5892 Losee RD STE 132 PMB 176, North Las Vegas, NV 89081-6200 📧 info@chestnutandhazel.com ‎‎☎+1-816-724-5293

...




































but when you call
where I am 
you forgot 
to enter an area code
and so the call when to 
someone with that number
in the local area and you spoke
to someone else.

...





...

Moorpark # 8

Some of the oranges and some
of the lemons
and some of the limes
have been sold to the citrus cartels

and they have juiced them
and then they have sold he juice
to the juice cartels

and then they have mixed the juice with
soda water.

...

I have to go through a number of older, flagged posts and clean up my blog because it has been demonetized.

...

Napkeeno # 17

Five of the oranges
and three of the lemons and
two of the bergamots are

needed for the recipe and then
you need to juice them
and then you need to mix
the juice

...

Sometimes I buy snacks at work thinking that it will improve my mood or stave off dipping into a bad mood, but it never does, and I think that I'll just sort of stop doing it.

...

I was thinking back to my February 2022 to Louisiana road trip, and how, shortly after returning to Dallas-Fort Worth I came across an older blog post of mine with a crude sketch of a planned road trip to Louisiana I ended up going in the opposite direction. I planned on heading to San Antonio, then New Orleans, then Shreveport, then back to Dallas. Instead I went to Shreveport, New Orleans, San Antonio, then Dallas.
...

Somewhere in the back of my mind the idea of driving to Alaska something I still think about. This isn't something that I can do any time soon. I have to get through tax season, and then pay off all of my credit cards, which will take me through July 2023, at the absolute soonest.

...


























...

I was trying to think back to when I came back to Las Vegas, and it was early October. During my road trips I started smoking cigarettes again because it's easier to do so while driving, but it's expensive, so I switched back. I started making my own cigarettes again, and adding ground cloves to the tobacco. I came across clove cigars on my road trips, and I remembered smoking them back when I was at Evergreen, but I never really smoked them with any regularity.

I continue to feel really tired, but less moody than I have been over the last few months. I've been wearing earplugs at work.

...

I got my tires replaced. I'm tired. I was at the repair place for 4 hours.

...

I'm not too frustrated or stressed about having to change my tires because I've been planning on getting new ones, especially after all those months of road trips, but I was really hoping to put it off until August. This is 6 months early, and it really sucks because this is really not the best time.

...

I got a flat tire while going to the grocery store. This really throws off my plans for, you know, my plans through mid-April. I was hoping to hold off on getting new tires until June. This is way earlier than I was hoping. Anyway, the place didn't have my tire size in stock, so they're ordering them, and they'll be in on Monday, so in the meantime I'll be on my spare tire.

...

"He never hit me, he was never physically abusive, but he was always yelling at me for stupid bullshit like I said about going out. I'm a fucking adult, I should be able to go out if I fucking want to."

Damien orders another round of drinks. Long Island Iced Teas for the two of them. The continue talking about their hobbies and interests and places they would like to visit. Time goes by and the bar is about to close. Damien asks if she would like to head back to his place. Marissa declines but gives Damien her phone number. Damien goes back home and calls it a night.

"Short Story" by Kenneth Larot Yamat

Harold Price Myers

...



My cell connection in North Las Vegas is horrible. I might have to switch service providers. That's something I never thought I would have to do, and I'm really not sure I'll do it.

I'm also really tired all the time, and irritable.

...

When the oranges
in the blender begin
to separate fiber by fiber 

they begin to form into 
a liquid called orange juice and

what do you think that you
can do with what is called orange juice

Do you have any idea about what 

you can do ? do you?


...

465 648 111 452 452 563 985
156 156 124 364 362 982 223
781 226 512 236 629 892 925
314 528 814 314 525 702 777

...



















...











15 75 75 66 20 20 28 20 00 

19 09 58 08 68 01 17 06 53

19 00 03 19 36 2 11 39 97 46

19 09 00 58 08 68

19 00 03 19 36 20 11 39 97 46

19 09 05 08 0 08 06 08

19 09 05 08 00 08 06 08 01 17 06 05 03

19 00 19 36 19 0 03 19 36 20 11 39 97 46

11 68 02 00 18 68 19 25 18 68 18 72

17 77 93 00 11 00 19 03 19 08 19 03 19 08

03 15 13 05 15 14 19 28

19 41 02 80 00 18 22 18 36 18 20 18 35

44 31 11 22 88 80

03 15 13 05 15 14 19 28

05 19 25 03 17 95 03 15 13 17 95

05 01 00 04 15 15 00 00 38 01 01 00 06 

...













I like having a three day weekend. There was something I was thinking about just five seconds ago, and it just slipped my mind, but it came back to me just now. I wanted to mention that I played Rome Total War 2 today. I hadn't played it in such a long time.

I'm reading some of my Facebook Memories from over a decade ago, from 11 years ago, and some of them aren't publicly visible. They're posts that I've written to myself. I used Facebook as a kind of diary.

...

My work shoes arrived the other day. I think they look nice. I ordered sneakers; I haven't bought boots in a while.

I selected a mesh fabric, which is important because my feet get really sweaty.

...

I've been wanting to go somewhere for a while, but, I really haven't thought about where, or what I would do there. Salt Lake City has been on my mind, but, I really don't know what I would do, or if I would enjoy it.

Just looking at what a drive would be, it would be cheaper to fly there, but I wouldn't have my car.

...







...

I really need some new fucking shoes.
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

I really need some new fucking shoes.
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

Shared with Only me
but on the good side I'm keeping my hours there so far. And the schedule is a little bit more convenient.  Eight to one with no lunch
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

Shared with Only me
i dont have hella shit. But it feels like i have hella shit. All i really need are my work clothes and few non work outfits. I want to throw away most of my sweaters.
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

Shared with Only me
I'm outside of this buffet and i cant believe that it isn't fucking open. But then. I just had a diet coke and I'm not sure if I'm hungry anymore.
On this day
13 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2010

...

Shared with Public
the bingification of google. that's what's on my mind.

...

On this day
13 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2010
 
Shared with Public
the bingification of google. that's what's on my mind.

...

Shared with Only me
what scares me is what happens next. Shit. What the hell is going to happen next.
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

Shared with Public
what can i throw away. And what do i keep.
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

Shared with Only me
my room is kind of clean. I have to leave at three thirty. Im so fucking tired right now. I have to sort through everthing and stuff. I think that the key to keeping things clean is or the key to cleanliness is having fewer things to keep clean.
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

469 916 816 408 816 817 702 415 929 469 001
011 023 004 003 014 018 023 321 856 325 745

11 18 09 19 20 09 14 25 01 13 01 20 01 02 03 04
25 05 01 08 18 09 07 08 20 04 18 05 01 13 15 14
09 23 09 12 12 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11




I went to the buffet, had dinner. I guess I shouldn't be super discouraged or anything, but I'm definitely frustrated. I'm less frustrated than I was earlier, but, still frustrated.

I guess I kind of made 3.50, when I look at the cost basis of the shares I bought today against the shares I sold.

But, today was just so agonizing that I don't want to do it again. When I think back about how the trading day when, there was a point where I could have bought back in at 19.08, and that would have meant that I ended the day with the same number of shares that I started with, and made a profit, but, for some reason I didn't buy back in, I think that, at the time, I thought that I had to buy back in at 19.06 or less, so I was holding out, but then the share price rose to the point where buying back in was more or less hopeless, and then out of frustration I sold everything, and in retrospect I shouldn't have done that either because, I could have sold those shares for slightly more than I sold them for.

I'm not completely done with day trading, or active investing, or active trading, it's just that I think that I need to re-work my approach. I don't want to buy back into VFC and try again. I'll just do something else, but, yeah, that was a real headache.

...

I experienced a moment of very intense frustration earlier. Maybe tomorrow will be a better day. I almost thought about taking off to Salt Lake City, but, then I thought never mind. I don't like going into details, but I guess I will. I've had a hard time with my position in VFC stock. Disaster. I entered a position back in February, and it's done nothing but crater ever since. I kept doubling down for a few months, and it continued to drop, so, I had to re-strategize. My goal was to reduce my position size slowly by buying a few shares, and selling that new position with a fraction more with each sell. I'd buy 5.95 shares and sell 6.00, and do that throughout the day. 

Then I ran into a problem, Cash Accounts aren't subject to the Pattern Day Trade rule the same way that Margin Accounts are, but Cash Accounts are still subject to a kind of Good Faith Violations rule, or a settled cash rule, and this turned out to be a pain in the neck. The number of round trips I can make in a day isn't fixed, but it's still limited buy the settlement of the purchase of shares, and the proceeds of any sell of shares.

At some point I realized that I could actually do things in the opposite direction as well, sell 6.00 shares, and buy 5.95 shares afterward, and the effect would be the same, or similar, and I would do this as the share price fell. I ended up selling more shares than I wanted to, and the opposite happens when I do things the other way around, I end up with more shares than I want to hold onto when I buy and sell, and I end up selling more shares than I want to when I sell, and then buy.

In a bout of frustration I ended up selling all my shares, and when I thought about buying back in, I thought: fuck this, I'm out of it, and, you know, do I really want to go back in on something that has caused me such intense frustration? The answer is no. So you know, I guess that's over.

It really made me think about how so many things in my life just don't seem to work out for me. So many fucking things just don't seem to work out for me.

Well, I guess I didn't lose a huge amount of money, but I'm more or less done with day trading for the time being.

...

Success just seems to be so elusive for me, whether it's success in the workplace, or, with investing, or, with artistic pursuits, or, educationally, or, with sexual and romantic pursuits.

I'd like to come up with a list of all the things I've given up on, the things I've lost interest in.

...

Why can't I just win for once? This is so irritating.

...

One of the things in life that I really hate, it that everything seems to be so much easier for everyone else. I'm having a hard time, and, nothing ever seems to get much easier.

...

I think about the things in life that elude me. Here we go. I never get anything that I want.

...

Oh, I actually do have something to say. Lint pills. They are a nightmare, I was using a cuticle cutter to remove them, but then I remembered how I used to deal with this: by using a razor blade, the kind of shaving, a Bic razor blade. It works like a charm. I found an old kitchen knife that I used for removing lint pills from my pants, I bought the kitchen knife back when I was living in Arlington, but, when I found it, it was rusty. I was surprised that it was rusty because the knife was a stainless steel knife, but, whatever, it was rusty, so I threw it in the recycling bin.

...

Anyway. I don't really know what to say right now.

...

56 50 60 40 10 90 40 06 22 11 23
23 00 20 30 01 45 03 22 04 02 14
37 05 40 10 36 29 60 03 03 00 25
13 29 05 29 86 26 31 80 05 33 80
08 18 19 83 07 17 11 54 11 33 08
14 15 26 28 43 57 16 08 07 14 12
09 04 15 14 20 11 14 15 23 23 08 

15 20 08 05 06 21 03 11 09 19 06 
21 03 14 25 36 78 54 12 32 01 23
11 09 14 07 10 10 12 14 14 12 21 
23 09 20 08 13 02 21 20 20 08 09 
19 08 84 85 65 58 52 32 14 14 25
09 19 01 18 05 01 12 20 05 01 19 
05 91 95 25 35 21 25 32 25 85 74
04 01 12 12 01 19 41 74 85 25 78

...

19 08 84 85 65 58 52 32 14 14 25
09 19 01 18 05 01 12 20 05 01 19 
30 19 28 23 19 75 36 19 70 11 23

...

29 04 15 14 20 11 14 15 23 23 08 
15 33 12 52 23 21 85 74 25 95 15
09 19 01 18 05 01 12 20 05 01 19 
30 19 28 23 19 75 36 19 70 11 23
20 08 05 06 21 03 11 09 19 06 21 
03 11 09 14 07 77 07 07 77 74 74
23 09 20 08 13 02 21 20 20 08 09 
19 11 23 04 11 23 25 11 23 25 11
09 19 01 18 05 01 12 20 05 01 19 
05 03 14 03 14 03 14 08 14 03 14
06 05 06 13 20 23 01 07 06 15 20 
23 12 08 06 15 20 23 24 07 03 14
06 05 06 13 20 23 01 07 06 15 20 
23 12 08 06 15 20 23 24 07 03 14
06 05 06 13 20 23 01 07 06 15 20 
23 12 08 06 15 20 23 24 07 88 11
22 20 07 10 16 25 48 49 00 01 02
43 19 08 17 04 01 12 12 01 19 09 
16 08 16 08 17 09 17 09 29 04 43

...

005 003 014 003 014 003 014 008 014 003 014
033 979 033 232 079 000 068 013 626 048 314
053 016 000 039 043 072 059 003 058 000 008
006 005 006 013 020 023 001 007 006 015 020 
230 102 008 006 105 200 203 204 007 314 081
011 023 004 003 014 011 012 025 011 023 025 
011 023 025 014 011 012 025 011 025 012 314
106 205 306 413 520 623 701 807 906 015 120 
123 212 308 406 515 620 723 824 907 031 145
006 005 006 013 020 023 001 007 006 015 020 
123 102 008 006 015 020 023 024 007 159 265
022 020 007 010 016 025 048 409 001 002 003
...









...




















































I like having a three day weekend. There was something I was thinking about just five seconds ago, and it just slipped my mind, but it came back to me just now. I wanted to mention that I played Rome Total War 2 today. I hadn't played it in such a long time.

I'm reading some of my Facebook Memories from over a decade ago, from 11 years ago, and some of them aren't publicly visible. They're posts that I've written to myself. I used Facebook as a kind of diary.

...

My work shoes arrived the other day. I think they look nice. I ordered sneakers; I haven't bought boots in a while.

I selected a mesh fabric, which is important because my feet get really sweaty.

...

I've been wanting to go somewhere for a while, but, I really haven't thought about where, or what I would do there. Salt Lake City has been on my mind, but, I really don't know what I would do, or if I would enjoy it.

Just looking at what a drive would be, it would be cheaper to fly there, but I wouldn't have my car.

...







...

I really need some new fucking shoes.
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

I really need some new fucking shoes.
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

Shared with Only me
but on the good side I'm keeping my hours there so far. And the schedule is a little bit more convenient.  Eight to one with no lunch
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

Shared with Only me
i dont have hella shit. But it feels like i have hella shit. All i really need are my work clothes and few non work outfits. I want to throw away most of my sweaters.
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

Shared with Only me
I'm outside of this buffet and i cant believe that it isn't fucking open. But then. I just had a diet coke and I'm not sure if I'm hungry anymore.
On this day
13 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2010

...

Shared with Public
the bingification of google. that's what's on my mind.

...

On this day
13 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2010
 
Shared with Public
the bingification of google. that's what's on my mind.

...

Shared with Only me
what scares me is what happens next. Shit. What the hell is going to happen next.
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

Shared with Public
what can i throw away. And what do i keep.
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

Shared with Only me
my room is kind of clean. I have to leave at three thirty. Im so fucking tired right now. I have to sort through everthing and stuff. I think that the key to keeping things clean is or the key to cleanliness is having fewer things to keep clean.
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

469 916 816 408 816 817 702 415 929 469 001
011 023 004 003 014 018 023 321 856 325 745

11 18 09 19 20 09 14 25 01 13 01 20 01 02 03 04
25 05 01 08 18 09 07 08 20 04 18 05 01 13 15 14
09 23 09 12 12 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11


I must have been semi-serious about going because I packed my laptop. There were several times where I would go on a road-trip with nothing more than I would ordinarily carry: my wallet and phone, and that's it, not even an extra change of clothes. Serious.

One of the pictures I came across was a screenshot of my phone with the destination set to Las Vegas, it was from shortly after I left Cameron, Missouri and was staying the the Dallas - Fort Worth area, I hadn't taken up residence in Texas or anything at the time, I was just there I guess, staying at motels or whatever. At some point I remember thinking: fuck it, I'll just head back to Vegas, but on my way there I started having issues with my car, my car would shake if I went over 60 MPH. I ended up staying in Texas as a result.

I didn't get it fixed until a year later, and it turned out to be something cheap: my tires just needed to be balanced. It's not that I was trying to avoid the cost of getting it fixed at the time, or, maybe it was, or I don't really know. I do remember that I took it as a sign to just stick around. Azle, Texas is on the western edge of the Dallas - Fort Worth area, so I must have been heading to Vegas and stopped there.

Years later, when I got stuck in Jennings, Louisiana, I remember almost thinking that I should stay there. It was a small rural town and I remember having. I remember feeling nostalgic about living in Cameron, Missouri. I don't know why I decided against staying in Jennings, Louisiana. I remember not having my computer, and I'm thinking that I just wasn't able to look into apartments and jobs in the area. I remember, I eventually rented a U-Haul truck and a tow dolly and towed my car back into Dallas - Fort Worth.

I just went to the buffet and came back. Part of the reason I went was to get a fortune cookie, more than anything like being really hungry.  

The fortune cookie said: hidden reservoirs of strength are about to be discovered.

and I don't really know what to think about that. I don't need any trials and tribulations and shit right now that show me just how much strength and perseverance I really have.

I would prefer it has something to do with making a, you know, soul mate connection and, you know, I have all these reservoirs. of. you know. strength. hehe.

...

I'm feeling somewhat scatter brained right now. It's not like I've had a whole bunch of caffeine or anything, so I'm not sure why my thoughts are all over the place.

One thing I'm thinking about is that I've had since mid-April to pay off my credit cards, and, I should be able to pay them off by the end of August like I originally planned, and also, my thinking is that I actually can pay them off by the end of August.

...

So, at the beginning of the year I thought that I would only need until the end of August to pay off my credit cards, but it turns out that I would only be half way there by the end of August, and that's under somewhat ideal circumstances, what that means is that I'll probably be working on this until the end of the year, and fuck, student loan payments start in August. at the end of August, and that's just going to be another drag.

...

I ate around 3/3 of the pizza roll snacks in the back, and I'm kind of stomach sick, I was really hungry, but, I ate too much.

...

I went to the grocery store to get pizza snack roles, not Totino's, but the generic store brand version, which had more rolls at a lower price, Well, obviously, but I think they had 30 percent more rolls, and were 25 percent lower in price.

...

So yesterday, after I threw the towel in on day trading my way out of a loss in VFC stock, I figured I'd just stay in cash or something for a while, then I thought, maybe I shouldn't get so discouraged or whatever. For some reason I thought: maybe I'll just throw it all back into an index fund, but with my luck something catastrophic will happen anyway: another pandemic, a global catastrophe, an asteroid hits earth, nukes start detonating in major cities around the world, some AI program starts generating content that precipitates civil unrest, or uprisings, or radicalizes fringe groups, famine, volcanoes, earthquakes.

What is. the next black swan event? What happens next?

I'm so frustrated that everything I seem to try, with everything I seem to try, nothing really seems to work out, or, nothing seems to improve things for me. Well, things in life have improved, but, some real big improvement in my life just hasn't materialized.

...

I'm bored. I don't know what to do, but at the same time, I don't really want to do anything.

...

40 31 86 43 02 07 02 08 49 07 00
06 23 20 23 11 23 04 21 27 27 20
02 69 02 69 02 60 69 00 00 20 69
17 00 30 00 31 01 10 06 02 12 03
01 39 03 41 19 16 08 16 08 00 17
30 03 30 00 10 22 56 50 24 01 33

00 02 59 43 01 07 03 00 02 01 00
00 01 00 02 02 05 06 05 00 02 40
19 33 00 33 21 55 21 22 58 06 22 
23 09 00 04 04 03 96 04 03 90 03
04 03 07 01 02 09 09 03 06 09 06 
31 01 10 07 94 24 01 88 00 10 30 
10 70 30 00 60 80 80 50 00 00 90

56 50 60 40 10 90 40 06 22 11 23
23 00 20 30 01 45 03 22 04 02 14
37 05 40 10 36 29 60 03 03 00 25
13 29 05 29 86 26 31 80 05 33 80
08 18 19 83 07 17 11 54 11 33 08
14 15 26 28 43 57 16 08 07 14 12

...


Sometimes I get lost in my thoughts. mostly about the long series of disappointments and setbacks I've faced during my life. I'm almost ready to try again. or try something new. I don't really know what to try my hand at though.

I don't
really
know
what to 
try
though.
I really don't.

I think of there being three things. three possibilities, some kind of educational pursuit, some kind of technical training, and some kind of second job or side hustle. I'm still really resentful about how things turned out for me at UT Arlington. Really angry. Furious.

...

Today is the first day of the work week. I work nights, so I still have several hours before I have to go in. I read emails, I'm doing laundry right now. is there anything else I can really do?

...

Today is the last day of the weekend.

Looking back at this mini road trip. I really wish I had taken more pictures of Ely, NV. The part of the town that isn't totally brand new has a really distinct look to it.

...

I went on a road trip. A super tiny one, much less ambitious than I had originally planned, but it still felt longer than I wanted, and yet, I also spent so much time on the road that it isn't clear to me why I didn't reach my goal.

My original goal was Las Vegas, NV to Elko, NV to Salt Lake City, UT to Saint George, UT to Las Vegas, NV, but that didn't happen.

Early on in the trip I changed my goal from Elko to West Wendover, NV, figuring it would be a shorter trip between West Wendover to Salt Lake City, and also figuring that I might see the Mormon Crickets in West Wendover anyway.

Didn't happen. I got tired around Ely, NV, and then figured that's enough. I spent maybe 14 hours on the road. So yeah, that's really enough driving for me.

A few days ago I came across old posts from road trips that I had taken in the past, and I realized that so many of them coincided with difficult times in my life, and I kind of wondered if maybe difficult times in my life present themselves because I need to get out of the house or something, and also remembering that I almost went on a road trip the other day out of frustration.

Like, maybe the Universe itself is telling me I can't stay in bed and sleep all day, or play computer games.

I figured I'd go on a road trip without the Universe forcing me to do so.

The other kind of motivating factor was that I saw an overtime sign up. I missed it, obviously, otherwise I wouldn't have gone on a road trip, but it made me somewhat optimistic that I could go on a road trip without the cost of doing so effecting the deadline I'd set for myself to pay off my credit cards.

I recently transferred to a new work location, and I wasn't really expecting overtime to be a thing at this new location.

...

Yeah, so I'm back home now, I did not see any Mormon Crickets. NOT A SINGLE MORMON CRICKET! AT ALL! I'M SO ANGRY! 

#mormoncrickets

...

I'm on my way back home after not seeing a single Mormon Cricket 

#mormoncricket

...

I'm going to see the Mormon Crickets 

#mormoncrickets

...

I kind of want to visit Elko, Nevada to see the Mormon Crickets. 

#mormoncrickets

...
 
I ate 4 hot dogs and a box of ice cream.

...

June 23, 2020 · Shared with Public I ate 4 hot dogs and a box of ice cream.

...

40 31 86 43 02 07 02 08 49 07 00
06 23 20 23 11 23 04 21 27 27 20
02 69 02 69 02 60 69 00 00 20 69
17 00 30 00 31 01 10 06 02 12 03
01 39 03 41 19 16 08 16 08 00 17
30 03 30 00 10 22 56 50 24 01 33

00 02 59 43 01 07 03 00 02 01 00
00 01 00 02 02 05 06 05 00 02 40
19 33 00 33 21 55 21 22 58 06 22 
23 09 00 04 04 03 96 04 03 90 03
04 03 07 01 02 09 09 03 06 09 06 

31 01 10 07 94 24 01 88 00 10 30 
10 70 30 00 60 80 80 50 00 00 90
11 12 25 11 23 25 11 23 04 25 01
12 50 11 00 12 00 05 11 55 22 33

13 29 05 29 86 26 31 80 53 03 03
02 32 20 32 10 03 06 04 42 52 62
65 77 10 01 50 00 01 30 01 16 63
02 05 27 33 37 58 02 03 01 05 15
00 32 01 07 11 06 58 25 74 14 85
02 05 27 33 37 58 65 45 78 98 32
59 01 07 11 06 11 23 04 25 95 25

80 86 20 02 32 23 10 01 41 14 51
01 19 19 00 17 21 05 05 14 11 23

...




...

I went to the buffet yesterday. I got a fortune cookie and I feel like fortune cookies are my, secondary of course, but almost a second primary reason for going to the buffet. I was disappointed with what it said because it didn't feel like it really meant anything to me. it said something like: an optimistic heart clears the path to victory. and I'm not even sure how that's relevant to me.

My work week isn't that long. I work four days a week. nights.

My work
week isn't
that
long.

Sometimes I get lost in my thoughts. mostly about the long series of disappointments and setbacks I've faced during my life. I'm almost ready to try again. or try something new. I don't really know what to try my hand at though.

I don't
really
know
what to 
try
though.
I really don't.

I think of there being three things. three possibilities, some kind of educational pursuit, some kind of technical training, and some kind of second job or side hustle. I'm still really resentful about how things turned out for me at UT Arlington. Really angry. Furious.

...

Today is the first day of the work week. I work nights, so I still have several hours before I have to go in. I read emails, I'm doing laundry right now. is there anything else I can really do?

...

Today is the last day of the weekend.

Looking back at this mini road trip. I really wish I had taken more pictures of Ely, NV. The part of the town that isn't totally brand new has a really distinct look to it.

...

I went on a road trip. A super tiny one, much less ambitious than I had originally planned, but it still felt longer than I wanted, and yet, I also spent so much time on the road that it isn't clear to me why I didn't reach my goal.

My original goal was Las Vegas, NV to Elko, NV to Salt Lake City, UT to Saint George, UT to Las Vegas, NV, but that didn't happen.

Early on in the trip I changed my goal from Elko to West Wendover, NV, figuring it would be a shorter trip between West Wendover to Salt Lake City, and also figuring that I might see the Mormon Crickets in West Wendover anyway.

Didn't happen. I got tired around Ely, NV, and then figured that's enough. I spent maybe 14 hours on the road. So yeah, that's really enough driving for me.

A few days ago I came across old posts from road trips that I had taken in the past, and I realized that so many of them coincided with difficult times in my life, and I kind of wondered if maybe difficult times in my life present themselves because I need to get out of the house or something, and also remembering that I almost went on a road trip the other day out of frustration.

Like, maybe the Universe itself is telling me I can't stay in bed and sleep all day, or play computer games.

I figured I'd go on a road trip without the Universe forcing me to do so.

The other kind of motivating factor was that I saw an overtime sign up. I missed it, obviously, otherwise I wouldn't have gone on a road trip, but it made me somewhat optimistic that I could go on a road trip without the cost of doing so effecting the deadline I'd set for myself to pay off my credit cards.

I recently transferred to a new work location, and I wasn't really expecting overtime to be a thing at this new location.

...

Yeah, so I'm back home now, I did not see any Mormon Crickets. NOT A SINGLE MORMON CRICKET! AT ALL! I'M SO ANGRY! 

#mormoncrickets

...

I'm on my way back home after not seeing a single Mormon Cricket 

#mormoncricket

...

I'm going to see the Mormon Crickets 

#mormoncrickets

...

I kind of want to visit Elko, Nevada to see the Mormon Crickets. 

#mormoncrickets

...
 
I ate 4 hot dogs and a box of ice cream.

...

June 23, 2020 · Shared with Public I ate 4 hot dogs and a box of ice cream.

...

40 31 86 43 02 07 02 08 49 07 00
06 23 20 23 11 23 04 21 27 27 20
02 69 02 69 02 60 69 00 00 20 69
17 00 30 00 31 01 10 06 02 12 03
01 39 03 41 19 16 08 16 08 00 17
30 03 30 00 10 22 56 50 24 01 33

00 02 59 43 01 07 03 00 02 01 00
00 01 00 02 02 05 06 05 00 02 40
19 33 00 33 21 55 21 22 58 06 22 
23 09 00 04 04 03 96 04 03 90 03
04 03 07 01 02 09 09 03 06 09 06 

31 01 10 07 94 24 01 88 00 10 30 
10 70 30 00 60 80 80 50 00 00 90
11 12 25 11 23 25 11 23 04 25 01
12 50 11 00 12 00 05 11 55 22 33

13 29 05 29 86 26 31 80 53 03 03
02 32 20 32 10 03 06 04 42 52 62
65 77 10 01 50 00 01 30 01 16 63
02 05 27 33 37 58 02 03 01 05 15
00 32 01 07 11 06 58 25 74 14 85
02 05 27 33 37 58 65 45 78 98 32
59 01 07 11 06 11 23 04 25 95 25

80 86 20 02 32 23 10 01 41 14 51
01 19 19 00 17 21 05 05 14 11 23

...













...

It's Thursday, almost midnight, and I didn't do a damn thing with my day. I had a weird incident with my Steam gaming account where I had to change my password, which was irritating. but um. i love my new password. it makes my heart melt. haha. I guess I did a few things today, but nothing really material. I went to the grocery store and bought pizza rolls. I thought about going to a buffet, not the same one I go to all the time, the one just down the street, but I thought about going to one somewhere in Las Vegas, somewhere on the strip, or in Chinatown or somewhere, I don't know.

I usually delete emails as soon as I read them, but I was letting my email inbox kind of fill up because there were a few things that I wanted to read in-depth, most of these are newsletters, and some are kind of marketing emails, but I kind of wanted to catch up on things. So many things are distractions, and kind of useless.

Facebook memories. I saw this video of me walking to work back when I was living in Cameron, Missouri. One thing that's funny, not really related to the video or anything, but kind of because I was walking to work and I worked at a hotel, one of the things that is funny is that considering how long I worked at a hotel, that sometimes during my road trips I would try to get a room kind of early in the morning, and check-in is usually sometime later in the early afternoon, and, I would usually try to get a room early in the morning because I would be driving through the night, then I'd be tired in the morning. It's hot during the day, and I really don't like being out during the day doing anything.

Today is now Friday, and I should do something. Something useful. I don't really want to do anything like go out or whatever. I've become less interested in socializing. I've never been really into it anyway.

...

I have the rest of the day off, Thursday, and I have Friday off.

...

I left work a few hours early today. I was having issues with my computer, and after restarting the thing several times and logging in and out, and even switching computers, I realized that the issue was with my credentials or something, and not my computer. It's only ever me. So I went to Dotty's and had a few drinks and some bar food, then I went to the Cannery and had some more food. Then I went home and napped, I got back home at around the time I would have normally gotten home had I not left early.

Going out of town is sort of out of the question, I mean, at least today anyway. I signed up for a half shift for midnight Thursday, and I'm somewhat irritated because I left 2 hours early, and I signed up for a half shift, which if 5 hours, or five and a half, and like, I'm really only getting ahead by 3 hours this week, and at the same time, I'm already behind by 2 hours. Like I'm already behind by 2 hours, and I'm only going to get ahead by 3 hours. Well, 4.5 hours since those are overtime hours.

I have to remember to look into some kind of educational program, technical training, or second job.

...

I don't really want to go anywhere. I can't really think of where to go. and I'm also not really sure what I would do. I'm still focusing on paying down my credit cards, but it wouldn't really break the bank to go somewhere. or do something.

Sometimes when I go out to eat I have this desire or something to eat something real, but sometimes it's clearly something from a bag from the frozen foods section of the grocery store.

...

Well, there were a few things. One is that I got my meningitis vaccine. Fucking expensive. Really fucking expensive. I paid out of pocket. Really fucking expensive. Jesus. I don't really know.

I paid out of pocket. This is from Sanford Street 401. I paid out of pocket because I don't think that I was working at the time. I was going back to college and this was. This was during the few months leading up going to UT Arlington.

...













...

23 02 04 00 01 01 02 03 02 33 40 03 03
04 50 10 01 33 40 01 30 20 59 65 32 20
19 28 00 10 19 70 00 88 70 88 89 32 12

01 19 19 00 17 21 05 05 14 11 23 04 25
31 12 30 43 12 31 03 34 00 05 05 01 10 
10 00 00 01 10 20 21 16 05 20 05 07 08
02 05 02 03 04 05 50 20 30 40 51 12 32
33 15 10 52 99 10 22 15 05 52 74 85 02
11 04 15 63 85 26 35 21 05 10 13 29 62
11 32 02 10 06 27 23 06 44 11 05 41 01

01 19 19 00 17 21 05 05 14 11 23 04 25
42 84 20 02 48 24 08 56 95 48 15 02 30
23 05 12 12 00 00 20 08 05 18 05 00 23 
05 18 05 23 05 12 12 00 00 20 08 05 18 
05 00 23 05 18 05 00 01 00 06 05 23 00 
40 16 04 16 03 65 56 02 32 56 23 21 47

01 19 19 00 17 21 05 05 14 11 23 04 25
20 08 09 14 07 19 11 23 52 12 15 20 32 
23 05 12 12 00 00 20 08 05 18 05 00 23 
05 18 05 00 01 00 06 05 23 00 20 08 09 
14 07 19 86 06 96 52 58 74 85 95 32 58 
75 46 32 15 75 87 48 95 25 63 25 23 54

44 20 11 03 01 19 19 00 17 21 05 05 14
01 19 19 00 17 21 05 05 14 11 23 04 25
04 81 03 06 13 29 05 29 86 26 31 80 53 
32 15 51 12 21 23 30 85 50 02 56 32 15 
10 73 21 06 30 02 20 19 91 20 32 52 12 
71 24 53 30 76 70 77 84 18 91 98 54 32

...






































...

How are you doing Kenneth?

Not well, everything is a catastrophe, I'm basically failing, like usual, and can't really seem to get it together.

Why are you failing, Kenneth? and why is everything a catastrophe?

It's your fault! in fact, I think that from now on, I'm going to think of you as katastrophiena! Anyway, hyperbole aside, I'm legitimately not doing well, things aren't too much of a catastrophe, but they are more or less a total disaster. I'm serious.

I'm amused.

Yeah, well, I don't really know what to do.

Why do you figure it out.

Yeah, that's probably not going to happen. I'm really never going to figure this out.

...

It's lunchtime, and I'm not hungry, and I don't know why. I'm just not hungry.

I missed a sign up for overtime this week, so I have 3 days off, but there is honestly nothing interesting that I can do with that time. My courses start soon, so preparing for that is about as interesting a thing as I can do with my days off.

...

There weren't any breakfast burritos available when I went to the gas station this morning, so I bought a soda and that was it.

...

I'm in the worst mood ever. I feel like garbage.

...

My phone still doesn't really have a good connection at my new work location. This is frustrating because sometimes I want to write or read while I'm in my car. I get almost no connection anywhere in North Las Vegas.

I bought cigarettes. Twice. After telling myself that I want to quit smoking. I don't know what to do. It was lunch, and the gas station is just around the corner. So I bought some.

I continue to struggle with bouts of really intense unhappiness. It comes and goes and I'm not always sure where it comes from. It's usually over things I shouldn't really be bothered by.

...

Well, I bought a pack of cigarettes. I didn't mean to do that, but after this pack of cigarettes, I will definitely stop smoking. Tomorrow, Saturday, is the last day of the pay period, but the first day of the work week, I have the rest of today off, and I don't go in until 6:00 PM tomorrow. I don't know what it is, but even when I drink soy milk I get a stomach reaction similar to when I drink regular milk. Like: "come on stomach, this is just soy milk!"

...

I have to stop smoking, and I want to stop smoking.

...

Sharing or posting pictures on Blogger isn't ideal. The issue has to do with sizing. I need to manually adjust the sizes of pictures I post here to 600 pixels otherwise they overflow out of the margins.

I really want to stop smoking. I can't figure out why I'm so fatigued, sluggish, and tired all the time, other than that I smoke, and that I'd probably be more fit if I wasn't smoking. 

...

It feels like it has been a long week so far. I know that I shouldn't wish my life away, wishing the weeks and days and hours would go by faster, but I'm really stuck for the time being. distractions. diversions. I can't think of anything, and then again, I don't really want to do anything.

...

I want to buy some jeans, but I really have more pants than I need, and I also have enough jeans as it is, I think. So I guess I'll think that one over. I don't know. Some of my pants are too long. The length of my pants usually isn't an issue when I wear boots, but sometimes I wear sneakers, so, sometimes my pants drag across the floor.

...

I feel a little better. It seems that as soon as I wrote down that I was feeling sad, the feeling sort of dissipated. I felt like leaving work early, but, the most intelligent thing to do is finish out my shifts in full this week. I'm amazed by how long this week has felt so far, I still have one more day left of the work week, and, not really because I signed up for over time.

The most intelligent thing I can do is not leave work early.

I've kind of made a breakthrough with paying down my credit cards, it's not a major one, but I'll be able to accomplish, a kind of, full churn of the balances while reducing my total outstanding balances. This isn't a major breakthrough, but it's a breakthrough, and, I think that I should be happy about that. There is this kind of strategy or tactic where, I focus my payments on a specific card, and concentrate my spending on a specific card, and kind of rotate spending and payments during the month.

I have work today, but only about half a shift. I'm somewhat glad. I was really tired.

...

I continue to experience this really intense feeling of unhappiness. I don't know what it is. It hasn't gone away.

...

I can't believe how hot it is.

...

Today is Monday, like Monday-Monday. A real Monday, but for me it's a Wednesday in terms of the workweek, and yet that's not really accurate because I signed up for overtime this week, and I don't exactly have a day off. I signed up for two half-shifts. I kind of had to fight to keep my job today, not exactly but kind of. I'm not exactly sure what I would do if I were on the job market again.

...

some person on reddit laments that the person's country is on fire again, but i can't determine if the person is from france or canada.

...

It feels like there is a hole in my chest, or, like a ball of lead. I'm not really happy and I'm not sure why. There isn't much going on. Everything is kind of boring right now because the major goal. The major focus I have right now is paying down my credit cards.

...

I deleted my Facebook Dating profile like a few hours after setting it up. I didn't really put much into it, so I don't really feel like it's much of a loss.

I don't feel like getting de-monetized, and I've also just filed another appeal, but, I'm just not looking for a relationship and I don't know how else to put it, most of the apps for that type of connection are totally bogus. so, i'm not really going to put any more effort into that.

...

some person on reddit laments that his country is on fire again, but i couldn't determine if the person was from france or canada.

...

I'm feeling unhappy right now, and I don't know what set this off. There's nothing really going on. I signed up for Facebook Dating. Again. But. I'm not really enthusiastic about trying this again for the nine millionth time. Dating is something that I've really just given up on. And the truth is. I'm not looking for a relationship.

...

It's so hot. I can't believe how hot it is. I read that there was a heat wave in Texas, but I looked up the temperature in Dallas, and it's 12 degrees lower, but then again, it's later in the day over there, so I guess that's not an accurate comparison. At 10PM Pacific the temperature will be lower here in Vegas too.

...

when you take 
it all together
and see how
it all adds up and
how none of it
makes sense when
you look at it from
the perspective of
a person who sees
the bigger picture

you'll notice something
that you didn't notice
the last time you took
a look at it and sense that.

and you might not take
what you see seriously
because it doesn't look real
and you can't see the best
of the worst of the very
most interesting and you
can't take it with you
if you see where things go.

maybe you see things
that you aren't sure you
wanted to see or you
find out things that you
did not want to find out. 

but that's sometimes
the way it goes.

maybe you dig
but don't find anything
maybe you search
and you don't find anything
maybe you look
and see nothing

i imagined you called me 
and asked me to coffee
i imagined nothing i'd rather do
than have coffee with you

when i see the future i don't
see anything all that amazing
nothing in the future
nothing that i can see 
about the future seems
all that exciting
well
maybe that's not true maybe
sometimes

sometimes i see things that are
kind of amazing. some of the things
are not amazing.

i haven't fallen asleep and i need
to get some rest
and i've been actively trying to
fall asleep and i haven't been
successful in doing so.
even in this small task i seem
to have failed.

i haven't shaved my head in a while
because the last time i did i ended
up with a lot of nicks and cuts
and subsequently a bunch of scabs
which if i didn't let them heal would
just become new nicks and cuts
so i just didn't shave.

i think sometimes it's a reason
but it's not really a great reason
but it's a reason and
i'm really tired of explaining
every reason for every action
for every reason for every decision

and what i want to ask you is
if you're still as beautiful
as you always will be
because some people never change

i think that i'm missing something
i feel like i'm missing something
i have to be missing something
because i know that i'm missing something,
but what is it? i don't have a clue!

scatter brained where
half of my brain and thoughts 
are here and the other half
are somewhere else
maybe one day i'll have
a whole bunch of cool stuff
and maybe I won't but maybe
there are things that do not make 
sense where the things are

i don't know where the best
of the things are that cause 
my phone
alarm to ring. time
to head to work.
time to wake up
time to get going.
here we are and
we will be there shortly.

staring at the computer
screen and nothing changes
things are the same now
as they were just a few seconds
ago there is no change
there is nothing new to 
discover.

...

I don't really write a lot unless I'm facing challenges in life, but if everything is normal, then there really isn't much to write about. I had breakfast, I had lunch, I had dinner, I did laundry, and so on.

...

I signed up for a technical training program through the educational benefits offered by my employer. I hope this works.

...

Actually, don't worry about it, do whatever you'd like to do.

...

You're setting yourself up for the same problems over and over because you're doing the same things over and over with the expectation of a different outcome.

...

Actually, don't worry about it, do whatever you'd like to do.

...

You're setting yourself up for the same problems over and over because you're doing the same things over and over with the expectation of a different outcome.

...

I think it's this, and I'm trying to be both candid and tactful at the same time, and it's very difficult to be both simultaneously, but hell, I'll try it.

...

Uh, well, I think it's this, and stop me if you disagree or maybe don't stop me because you like hearing me talk, maybe you like the sound of my voice, listen.

...

Let me ask you this because maybe you need a reflective moment for once so here it is: why do you think things fall apart so easily for you?

...

📮5892 Losee RD STE 132 PMB 176, North Las Vegas, NV 89081-6200 📧 info@chestnutandhazel.com ‎‎☎+1-816-724-5293

...














...

06 07 00 02 01 00 07 00 05 08 09 00 06
24 00 07 02 00 03 08 74 01 09 08 08 09
18 20 18 10 01 20 11 88 22 00 00 01 08
10 16 18 35 25 04 01 40 01 08 16 18 35
40 09 91 45 55 51 00 70 07 02 88 68 88 

04 01 00 01 00 31 15 20 18 05 32 15 85
80 08 05 08 58 85 20 02 24 02 24 41 23
07 02 20 40 02 35 25 85 15 87 74 42 36
00 05 67 00 02 00 04 05 02 72 40 27 65
30 02 49 09 84 25 65 25 32 51 14 85 96
04 25 04 02 05 85 95 35 11 22 44 77 84

07 03 02 05 50 56 52 02 10 17 81 28 93
32 15 07 03 20 02 20 23 62 57 67 58 67 
57 77 18 06 86 58 10 85 25 63 86 68 85 
73 72 41 46 22 44 54 22 90 51 25 62 36

08 12 10 10 01 18 06 87 31 52 66 33 22
23 75 83 23 17 12 86 81 18 14 41 32 62
07 17 73 13 00 17 12 51 47 85 25 35 62
08 17 74 80 68 74 36 39 19 26 40 00 44
02 22 60 90 40 88 81 46 28 36 96 65 56
06 71 06 66 64 04 07 10 01 23 32 02 20

80 82 32 86 80 44 38 08 23 28 68 44 30
54 44 14 44 12 32 22 25 85 22 32 54 55
15 15 12 12 32 32 15 95 80 96 74 02 32
 
...





































































I don't feel that great. I haven't felt sad for several days, but it seems to be coming back, and again, I have no idea where this feeling comes from. Unhappy.

...

 
I want to nap but I'm awake. I have work later today, and, I also have something else to do a few hours before work starts.

...

I'm looking at a post from over 2 years ago from the Sanford Street series. I was doing food delivery at the time to make some extra money even though I was making pretty decent money with all the extra overtime I was logging at the book factory. At the time I was delivering food through Uber Eats, I eventually got kicked off Uber Eats and starting delivering using Door Dash, I don't think that I would have switched unless, like in this case, I was forced to.

Uber Easts and Door Dash are very different. Uber Eats doesn't have, or didn't have zones like Door Dash, you could end up anywhere in Dallas - Fort Worth, and the area is huge, the trips tended to be longer in terms of milage as a result, and seemed, in turn, to pay more. I also felt like I got pinged more often for a delivery with Uber Eats than with Door Dash.

With Door Dash I had to select a zone, so I think I would select the zone near the book factory, but, that wasn't a really good zone because the only restaurants in the area were, I think a donut shop and a few fast food places, so I wouldn't really get pinged. Sometimes I would head home, and then select the zone near my home, but I lived in a low-income neighborhood and again, I just wouldn't get pinged very often.

Sometimes I'd sit in my car for 30 minutes before getting an order, then I'd get an order and it would take 30 minutes, and then at the end of the whole thing I'd get two dollars and fifty cents for all of that. The last time I did food delivery I got an order paying one dollar and seventy-five cents. I declined it and quit food delivery for good at that point. I think it was sometime in the last quarter of 2021 that I quit doing food delivery and just started looking for a second job to make extra money. I took a job at a gas station, but I was only there for a month, the position was more physically and mentally draining than I expected it to be. The pay was also substantially less than what was advertised, so I figured it wasn't worth it.

...

Letters from Sanford Street # 281 Posted by Chestnut + Hazel on Mar 8, 2021

I really want to buy some new clothes, new pants, new jackets, and new shirts, but this is definitely a want, and not a need. There is more or less nothing wrong with the clothes I have, and on top of that, I have plenty of new clothes in my closet that I haven't used yet, and there is nothing wrong with those new clothes either, I mean, what I'm wanting is new, new clothes.

Well, I actually did buy 5 new shirts yesterday, so I did buy new, new clothes. What I'm I thinking, though. Well. There weren't any calls for overtime at the book factory. There was one small one, but it filled before I could accept it. What I mean is, I usually take two 12 hours overtime shifts at the book factory, supposing that those don't come up, it means I have to make up that money doing food delivery, and food delivery is a much harder way to make up that money, I want to say that it takes about 20 hours of food delivery to make the same amount as 12 hours of overtime.

There are aspects to both, food delivery doesn't have withholding, but it does have expenses, overtime at the factory does have withholding, but it does not have expenses. Anyway, what I'm trying to get at is this, If I have to make up that money doing food delivery, I really don't want to spend that money. Food delivery money is really hard to earn, which makes it really hard to spend.

...

It's another early morning, and I thought about heading to Salt Lake City again. What's there? I have no idea. There's this thought that I might not be able to do it if I don't do it now. Or, you know, if I don't do it today. I have the technical training, the vocational training courses starting next week, and they go on until November, and there is always the possibility of overtime although I'm in a location where the workload would probably trail increased sales volume by a few weeks or a few months.

...

It's really early in the morning, and the temperature is cool right now, I thought about heading to Salt Lake City, but I'm not sure I'm going to do that.

...

Looking at a few of my Facebook Memories. One is a video of me walking through the grass. In this case I think that I'm walking to work. I didn't buy a car in Missouri until some point in August, and, that was earlier than I wanted to. I wanted to wait until it started snowing again, and for some reason I had to buy a car sooner. The next set of memories were from Texas, from my first few months there in Arlington. Screenshots of my Robinhood account and some other stuff. I closed that account and a bunch of others a while ago because it wasn't really necessary any more, and I didn't feel any need to have more than the ones that I kept.

...


The best of the oranges is
rounder than the best of the
candies that have been made
from the qualities of the
taste of the qualifications of the
grapes and of the best of the 
whatever you have seen when the
people of the oranges of the
people of the mandarins or the
animals of the jungle like the
bananas who are related to
the pineapples.

...

mushrooms become aware of their surroundings
and begin to question
the reasons for why they grow and
begin to think of better ways
to become larger and
more delicious

and avocadoes become aware of
how they are made into
guacamole
and avocadoes become aware
of how they become
avocado toast
and they become aware
of how tomatoes become
pico de gallo 

and the sausages become aware of
how they know what the
hot dogs who are their cousins
of who you are
and why you
still occupy my thoughts
and why i'm still upset

of how the cabbages
in the garden have become
fermented and have
become sauerkraut
and how they have become shredded 
and have become coleslaw
and how they have been
boiled.

...


these are where you
are and you
are here and when 
you went somewhere
else you took everything
I thought you 
were in possession of.

hear the sound
of when
you are
here and when
the sound of how you
spoke and how you 
smell when
you talk about how good
it is and how you
smell when you are
sweaty from activities

that are more 
interesting in the
hotter weather of the
tropical paradise of
the tropical lands
of where the tropical fruits
are grown in great
tropical jungles.

...

there is nothing that
can change the

and there is nothing
that can change
the channel
because the 
remote control is
missing or maybe the
remote control is broken

but i wouldn't know if
the remote control is
lost or if the remote
control is broken
because i have no idea
where the remote control
is because i haven't seen
it for the longest time
in the universe

you are a winner because
you are getting what
you want out of life and
you are getting the
things in the cabinet

including
your remote control

...

think of how the things
that you've seen are now
different from what was
originally there
and now how what is currently

here is different from what was
previously here and what
was originally here and what
could be a new thing and what
can be the next thing that
is here and what there are
everywhere
and what there are when there
are things that you think that
are meant to be seen and what
are things that are meant to 
be discovered

...

07 02 20 22 21 07 13 23 01 53 79 72 23 08 85
25 16 89 25 16 90 25 16 91 37 80 51 37 80 52
37 80 65 37 80 66 76 47 10 76 47 11 70 47 12

...












































































...

I don't feel that great. I haven't felt sad for several days, but it seems to be coming back, and again, I have no idea where this feeling comes from. Unhappy.

...

 
I want to nap but I'm awake. I have work later today, and, I also have something else to do a few hours before work starts.

...

I'm looking at a post from over 2 years ago from the Sanford Street series. I was doing food delivery at the time to make some extra money even though I was making pretty decent money with all the extra overtime I was logging at the book factory. At the time I was delivering food through Uber Eats, I eventually got kicked off Uber Eats and starting delivering using Door Dash, I don't think that I would have switched unless, like in this case, I was forced to.

Uber Easts and Door Dash are very different. Uber Eats doesn't have, or didn't have zones like Door Dash, you could end up anywhere in Dallas - Fort Worth, and the area is huge, the trips tended to be longer in terms of milage as a result, and seemed, in turn, to pay more. I also felt like I got pinged more often for a delivery with Uber Eats than with Door Dash.

With Door Dash I had to select a zone, so I think I would select the zone near the book factory, but, that wasn't a really good zone because the only restaurants in the area were, I think a donut shop and a few fast food places, so I wouldn't really get pinged. Sometimes I would head home, and then select the zone near my home, but I lived in a low-income neighborhood and again, I just wouldn't get pinged very often.

Sometimes I'd sit in my car for 30 minutes before getting an order, then I'd get an order and it would take 30 minutes, and then at the end of the whole thing I'd get two dollars and fifty cents for all of that. The last time I did food delivery I got an order paying one dollar and seventy-five cents. I declined it and quit food delivery for good at that point. I think it was sometime in the last quarter of 2021 that I quit doing food delivery and just started looking for a second job to make extra money. I took a job at a gas station, but I was only there for a month, the position was more physically and mentally draining than I expected it to be. The pay was also substantially less than what was advertised, so I figured it wasn't worth it.

...

Letters from Sanford Street # 281 Posted by Chestnut + Hazel on Mar 8, 2021

I really want to buy some new clothes, new pants, new jackets, and new shirts, but this is definitely a want, and not a need. There is more or less nothing wrong with the clothes I have, and on top of that, I have plenty of new clothes in my closet that I haven't used yet, and there is nothing wrong with those new clothes either, I mean, what I'm wanting is new, new clothes.

Well, I actually did buy 5 new shirts yesterday, so I did buy new, new clothes. What I'm I thinking, though. Well. There weren't any calls for overtime at the book factory. There was one small one, but it filled before I could accept it. What I mean is, I usually take two 12 hours overtime shifts at the book factory, supposing that those don't come up, it means I have to make up that money doing food delivery, and food delivery is a much harder way to make up that money, I want to say that it takes about 20 hours of food delivery to make the same amount as 12 hours of overtime.

There are aspects to both, food delivery doesn't have withholding, but it does have expenses, overtime at the factory does have withholding, but it does not have expenses. Anyway, what I'm trying to get at is this, If I have to make up that money doing food delivery, I really don't want to spend that money. Food delivery money is really hard to earn, which makes it really hard to spend.

...

It's another early morning, and I thought about heading to Salt Lake City again. What's there? I have no idea. There's this thought that I might not be able to do it if I don't do it now. Or, you know, if I don't do it today. I have the technical training, the vocational training courses starting next week, and they go on until November, and there is always the possibility of overtime although I'm in a location where the workload would probably trail increased sales volume by a few weeks or a few months.

...

It's really early in the morning, and the temperature is cool right now, I thought about heading to Salt Lake City, but I'm not sure I'm going to do that.

...

Looking at a few of my Facebook Memories. One is a video of me walking through the grass. In this case I think that I'm walking to work. I didn't buy a car in Missouri until some point in August, and, that was earlier than I wanted to. I wanted to wait until it started snowing again, and for some reason I had to buy a car sooner. The next set of memories were from Texas, from my first few months there in Arlington. Screenshots of my Robinhood account and some other stuff. I closed that account and a bunch of others a while ago because it wasn't really necessary any more, and I didn't feel any need to have more than the ones that I kept.

...


The best of the oranges is
rounder than the best of the
candies that have been made
from the qualities of the
taste of the qualifications of the
grapes and of the best of the 
whatever you have seen when the
people of the oranges of the
people of the mandarins or the
animals of the jungle like the
bananas who are related to
the pineapples.

...

mushrooms become aware of their surroundings
and begin to question
the reasons for why they grow and
begin to think of better ways
to become larger and
more delicious

and avocadoes become aware of
how they are made into
guacamole
and avocadoes become aware
of how they become
avocado toast
and they become aware
of how tomatoes become
pico de gallo 

and the sausages become aware of
how they know what the
hot dogs who are their cousins
of who you are
and why you
still occupy my thoughts
and why i'm still upset

of how the cabbages
in the garden have become
fermented and have
become sauerkraut
and how they have become shredded 
and have become coleslaw
and how they have been
boiled.

...


these are where you
are and you
are here and when 
you went somewhere
else you took everything
I thought you 
were in possession of.

hear the sound
of when
you are
here and when
the sound of how you
spoke and how you 
smell when
you talk about how good
it is and how you
smell when you are
sweaty from activities

that are more 
interesting in the
hotter weather of the
tropical paradise of
the tropical lands
of where the tropical fruits
are grown in great
tropical jungles.

...

there is nothing that
can change the

and there is nothing
that can change
the channel
because the 
remote control is
missing or maybe the
remote control is broken

but i wouldn't know if
the remote control is
lost or if the remote
control is broken
because i have no idea
where the remote control
is because i haven't seen
it for the longest time
in the universe

you are a winner because
you are getting what
you want out of life and
you are getting the
things in the cabinet

including
your remote control

...

think of how the things
that you've seen are now
different from what was
originally there
and now how what is currently

here is different from what was
previously here and what
was originally here and what
could be a new thing and what
can be the next thing that
is here and what there are
everywhere
and what there are when there
are things that you think that
are meant to be seen and what
are things that are meant to 
be discovered

...

07 02 20 22 21 07 13 23 01 53 79 72 23 08 85
25 16 89 25 16 90 25 16 91 37 80 51 37 80 52
37 80 65 37 80 66 76 47 10 76 47 11 70 47 12

...










































































My class starts tomorrow. There are still a few things that I need to set up, or check in with. I think that I've done most of that, but I think I should go over it again. 

...


...

My class starts tomorrow. There are still a few things that I need to set up, or check in with. I think that I've done most of that, but I think I should go over it again. 

...

















One of the pairs of jeans that I bought is just plain white. They were already dirty by the time I got home and put them on, but they are very comfortable for some reason. I think that dyes can change how cotton fabrics feel, I'm not sure if there is a difference when it comes to synthetic fabrics.

Yeah, these jeans are really comfortable. I'm really surprised with how comfortable they are.

...

I bought two pairs of jeans, two pairs of pants. three shirts, two of which have shirt pockets, and two pairs of shoes.

...

I bought a shirt. It's kind of small. well. Actually. It is small, but it's smaller than I thought it would be.

...

Kenneth. write this down. Forget about salt lake city temporarily. Stay local for now. do some in-person shopping to get out and explore.

...

Sometimes I experience extreme mental fog.

...



Sometimes I experience extreme mental fog.



...

How do you like your new credit card?

I didn't get it yet. It hasn't arrived yet. It's one of the nicer Citibank cards, and I've been wanting a nicer Citibank card for a while. I had a secured card there for, like 4 years I think, and, I'm looking forward to getting my security deposit back, it wasn't a big deposit or anything, I'm kind of annoyed, though, because even 4 years ago I thought I was past the whole security deposit crap. I put you down as a reference.

I saw that.

The Fidelity one would have been more ideal. I think, but it was just bad timing, I think I applied for the Fidelity one some time last month, early June, and didn't get approved, I was going to wait until July 31st, but, for some reason I didn't and I think that if I had waited until July 31st I would have been approved. My score jumped in kind of a noticeable way, but, I think that it had more to do with timing than any reduction in balances, the timing of my payments and the statement issue dates seems to have worked out in my favor.

...

The idea. the thought that I might be spending too much money is kind of on my mind, and then again, I also don't want to fall into miser mode and save all kinds of money, only to spend all kinds of money in one go in some kind of manic episode, or, lose a whole bunch of money buying coins or shares or whatever only to sell those things at a loss later.

and then again. when I really think about it. I don't really think that I spent too much money. Most of what I spent the other day was on clothes, and I haven't bought new clothes since last year. I didn't really need new clothes, really, but, I don't know, I realize that I kind of need to look presentable when I'm going out and doing things.

...

I spent too much damn money yesterday. Some of that stuff was for things that I was planning on buying anyway, like clothes and stuff. Well, I've been debating about it for a while, and I guess yesterday I made up my mind. The other stuff I spent money on yesterday, though, was actually unnecessary. I don't know why I did it, I guess I just felt like getting out.

...

This is a self-guided experience and it's at your discretion what pace you take through the exhibit. I did the entire thing twice: once to take pictures, and a second time to read all the placards to contextualize whatever I happened to be looking at. This place has a surprisingly eerie feeling considering it isn't deliberately designed to feel macabre. I'm going to see Christopher Nolan's new movie Oppenheimer later today, and I thought that this would be a suitable activity to accompany seeing the movie.

...

07 20 01 05 08 35 25 32 85 25 66 32 52 14
13 29 05 29 86 26 31 80 53 43 74 03 07 87 
67 14 35 26 36 25 45 39 23 43 45 85 25 65

...

shoes are 
the answer
to having
bare feet

if your feet
are uncovered
you have a problem

and that problem is called
bare feet
and

the solution to
that problem
is called shoes

...

Get what you want
when
you see what
you 

just get it

do you get it?
get it!
go out and get it
do you get it?

...









...

there are
those things
that are easy
to understand

and

there are 
those tings
that are
incomprehensible

yesterday when I was at
an intersection I saw a light
and the light was red
so I stopped my card
the message was easy to comprehend

and yet

the driver behind me
seemed to shake his head
in frustration
and I could not figure out why
the light was red

I had to stop
and
since he was behind me
he had to stop as well

so

why the
irritation on 
his part
I couldn't understand it

...











...

<html>
<body>
    <body style="background-image: url('https://static.independent.co.uk/s3fs-public/thumbnails/image/2011/02/06/17/550127.jpg?quality=75&width=1990&crop=4%3A3%2Csmart&auto=webp');">
    <title>The Best Haircut</title>
    <h3>Hello Earth! Moon! Mars! & Venus!</h3>
    <p>What I thought was a haircut turned out</p> 
    <p>not to be a haircut. it was. actually. </p>
    <p>just. hair. </p>
    <p>hiding behind the neck.</p>
    <p>hair hides behind the neck </p>
    <p>and plays </p>
    <p>hide and seek. </p>
    <p>or maybe </p>
    <p>MARCO ! POLO ! </p>
    <p>no hair is the same as hairless  </p>
    <p>no hare is a tortoise. </p>
    <p>FASTER! slower. FASTER! FASTER! FASTER!</p>
   <p>Harder? like the shell of a tortoise?</p>

    <p>NO! just FASTER!</p>
    <h1>My home </h1>
    <p>is on Audrey Hepburn Street! </p>
    <p>where else could I possibly live?</p>
    <h2>Things I like about my home</h2>
    <p>foremost among those things I like about my home</p>
    <p>is that Audrey Hepburn is always here</p>
    <p>and in the neighborhood I like that we have</p>
    <ul> <li>places Audrey Hepburn likes to eat</li><li>places Audrey Hepburn likes to go</li><li>places Audrey Hepburn likes to see</li></ul>

    <body style="background-color:#f5f5dc">
    
</body>
</html>

...

...

Additional cracks continue to appear on the screen of my phone.

...

Once one crack appears on the screen, more follow. I've only had this phone for 2 months, and now the countdown begins for when I have to replace it. If I could somehow hold out a year this wouldn't bother me so much, if at all, but, I just bought this damn phone. A few cracks in the corner, now all across the screen.

...

My phone screen just cracked. I just bought this damn thing.

Looking at my old posts. I bought this phone in early May. So I've only had this phone for 2 months. I don't really want to switch carriers and I don't really want a new number.

...

Kenneth, I want your trademark -ginity!

I really don't know who else I would give that to.

...

This felt like a long weekend, and that's a good thing. it a good thing for the weekend, for my days off to feel longer than shorter. I've been increasing my caffeine consumption, which is actually so. I've actually been trying to cut down on caffeine consumption.

...

I feeling almost sad right now. I'm not there, in the sad zone, but it feels like the sadness is about to hit. Like I'm about to be slammed in the chest with a blast of emptiness. I've felt better lately, whatever this feeling is, whatever causes it, seems to be abating, or something, but it still almost gets there.

...

I think that I wrote this poem back in 2017 for a creative writing class. I saw that it had several views. I'm not really sure how much I like it. I think that at the time, and for years before as well, my goal was just to pump out as many poems as I could in any given day, and this is kind of a product of  that.

Drinking Whiskey Is Like Kissing A Woman

After all the bars I've gone to, and all
the drinks I've had, I can say that drinking
whiskey is like kissing a woman. Fall
into a shot of whiskey while thinking

about a woman who you'd love to kiss
and you'll find it a more than adequate
substitute for bringing your tongue to bliss.
Not very many people would equate

A shot of whiskey to a kiss because
they have never tried it: I recommend
that they do. Longing for a kiss can cause
mental distress that's very hard to mend:

It's been written about in all kinds of
insane lunatic poems about love.

...


                  <a href="mailto:info@chestnutandhazel.com" target="blank"><p>info@chestnutandhazel.com</p></a>

                  <a href="mailto:info@chestnutandhazel.com" target="blank"><p><button >Contact</button></p></a>  


...


info@chestnutandhazel.com

Contact



...








...

Additional cracks continue to appear on the screen of my phone.

...

Once one crack appears on the screen, more follow. I've only had this phone for 2 months, and now the countdown begins for when I have to replace it. If I could somehow hold out a year this wouldn't bother me so much, if at all, but, I just bought this damn phone. A few cracks in the corner, now all across the screen.

...

My phone screen just cracked. I just bought this damn thing.

Looking at my old posts. I bought this phone in early May. So I've only had this phone for 2 months. I don't really want to switch carriers and I don't really want a new number.

...

Kenneth, I want your trademark -ginity!

I really don't know who else I would give that to.

...

This felt like a long weekend, and that's a good thing. it a good thing for the weekend, for my days off to feel longer than shorter. I've been increasing my caffeine consumption, which is actually so. I've actually been trying to cut down on caffeine consumption.

...

I feeling almost sad right now. I'm not there, in the sad zone, but it feels like the sadness is about to hit. Like I'm about to be slammed in the chest with a blast of emptiness. I've felt better lately, whatever this feeling is, whatever causes it, seems to be abating, or something, but it still almost gets there.

...

I think that I wrote this poem back in 2017 for a creative writing class. I saw that it had several views. I'm not really sure how much I like it. I think that at the time, and for years before as well, my goal was just to pump out as many poems as I could in any given day, and this is kind of a product of  that.

Drinking Whiskey Is Like Kissing A Woman

After all the bars I've gone to, and all
the drinks I've had, I can say that drinking
whiskey is like kissing a woman. Fall
into a shot of whiskey while thinking

about a woman who you'd love to kiss
and you'll find it a more than adequate
substitute for bringing your tongue to bliss.
Not very many people would equate

A shot of whiskey to a kiss because
they have never tried it: I recommend
that they do. Longing for a kiss can cause
mental distress that's very hard to mend:

It's been written about in all kinds of
insane lunatic poems about love.

...


                  <a href="mailto:info@chestnutandhazel.com" target="blank"><p>info@chestnutandhazel.com</p></a>

                  <a href="mailto:info@chestnutandhazel.com" target="blank"><p><button >Contact</button></p></a>  


...


info@chestnutandhazel.com

Contact



...









...

I am. In. Salt Lake City. Hehehe. Stupid. I don't know where to go. From here.

...

My phone is almost completely cracked, and, I'm probably going to need a new phone soon. Another issue is that I was written up at work for productivity, and this is kind of a headache. In the worst case scenario I'm out of a job in 2 - 3 weeks, so I have to prepare a contingency for that, and, you know, this is a little bit of a nightmare. I do what I can to stay employed, but, sometimes it seems the harder I try, the harder I have to try, and it feels like this is one of those time where Destiny & Fate are clearly trying to push me in a new direction, but not as hard as they sometimes do. When I left Las Vegas 5 years ago, and when I left Missouri 3 years ago, and when I left Texas 1 year ago, like each time it was just. It just really seemed that there was no way to triumph over whatever challenges I had been facing.

When I think about heading to Salt Lake City I'm in two minds about the idea. If I'm a few weeks away from being unemployed, then maybe doing a road trip isn't the best idea, and on the other hand, maybe I should go on a road trip because if I don't do it now, I might not get a chance to do a road trip for a while. Like, if I get canned, it will be maybe another year before I'm in a position to really do anything.

...





























It was funny because, when I saw him months later at a new company, I asked him what this issue was, why, you know he was at a new company and all that. For me, I was looking for a second job, but I already had a second job, and I think, most employers aren't too open to any given employee having two job and all that, at least, not for very long anyway. Anyway, about the old friend, I asked him what the issue was, and he said he said something, and I said to him, you know, it's funny that you should say that, because, I happened to be thinking the exact same thing.

Something like. I remember ordering something like 2 large appetizers, they were large enough for 2 people, and, for some reason the waitress asks if I want an entrée anyway. So I ordered one, but I was already really stuffed. I ate everything, but I really was super stuffed. I didn't know what to do. I was stuffed, like a turkey. I'm on thing ice right now. 2 write ups, and now I'm on suspension. I'm afraid about the potential for tough times ahead. I'm afraid about the future. I want to be at a point where I can say: everything turned out for the best.

There were times when things really did get better, and when it seemed like I was on the right path. sometimes it feels like a good future is so far away, and so far out of reach. and something that will just never happen. and something that will just never materialize. and something that is just for people who have connections, and something that is just for people who have all the right social skills. and sometimes I think that maybe I should make more friends. I made one friend, and we exchanged contact information. Sometimes friendships go stale by the time I need a letter of recommendation. sometimes connections drop by the time I need a letter of recommendation. 

Coincidences skill seem to pop up from time to time, and sometimes I'm not really sure what to make of them. Sometimes there is this thing or that thing and some connection between the two, and I don't really even want to go into details, I really don't even want to get into the specifics of this or that thing. I just don't. I really don't. When she says that coincidence makes sense only with you, what I wonder is does she mean the coincidence seems to make sense only when someone, whoever she is talking to, explains the coincidence as more than a coincidence, or does she mean, that the person who she is talking to is able to accept a coincidence as a coincidence without thinking more of it. two thirty two. ninety six. four four three. I'm probably just seeing things.

...

I'm really not feeling okay. I'm not feeling okay at all. Things are not going well. I was kind of making a little bit of progress not too long ago, but now, I think I'll be facing kind of a set back. Nightmare. over and over. I'm not happy. I'm unhappy. Everything is kind of a disaster. Everything is kind of a nightmare. The clock is officially ticking, and I have no idea what on earth to do. I feel like pure garbage.

...

I left work early. again. and again it wasn't really a good idea. not the end of the world. but not a good idea. I'm just not really feeling happy. I feel like pure garbage. I'm just in a persistent unhappy mood. With all the time I've missed I might as well have gone on another road trip. When I looked at my time card I didn't realize that I left so early. I thought I worked 2 hours at least, but, it was really only an hour an a half. I drink so many energy drinks every day. I don't know why I'm in such a bad mood all the time. I'm either angry, or depressed. over and over in circles.

Feeling lost. I have no idea what to do. I kind of want to go back to college. One of the few things that I enjoy is the Software and Web Development course that I'm taking, it's expensive, and I don't really think I'd be doing this unless it was an employer paid benefit, but I think I kind of want to check out what's offered at one of the community or junior colleges in Las Vegas.

So even if I'm somehow able to work through all my remaining shifts for the week, it will only put me at about 31 or 32 hours worked for the week. Huge mistake to cut out of work, but, sometimes my brain, my mood, just has to get away. I couldn't concentrate during class, and I'm having trouble concentrating now.

...

I'm really not feeling okay. I'm not feeling okay at all. Things are not going well. I was kind of making a little bit of progress not too long ago, but now, I think I'll be facing kind of a set back. Nightmare. over and over. I'm not happy. I'm unhappy. Everything is kind of a disaster. Everything is kind of a nightmare. The clock is officially ticking, and I have no idea what on earth to do. I feel like pure garbage.

...

I left work early. again. and again it wasn't really a good idea. not the end of the world. but not a good idea. I'm just not really feeling happy. I feel like pure garbage. I'm just in a persistent unhappy mood. With all the time I've missed I might as well have gone on another road trip. When I looked at my time card I didn't realize that I left so early. I thought I worked 2 hours at least, but, it was really only an hour an a half. I drink so many energy drinks every day. I don't know why I'm in such a bad mood all the time. I'm either angry, or depressed. over and over in circles.

Feeling lost. I have no idea what to do. I kind of want to go back to college. One of the few things that I enjoy is the Software and Web Development course that I'm taking, it's expensive, and I don't really think I'd be doing this unless it was an employer paid benefit, but I think I kind of want to check out what's offered at one of the community or junior colleges in Las Vegas.

So even if I'm somehow able to work through all my remaining shifts for the week, it will only put me at about 31 or 32 hours worked for the week. Huge mistake to cut out of work, but, sometimes my brain, my mood, just has to get away. I couldn't concentrate during class, and I'm having trouble concentrating now.

...

I left work early. That was a stupid decision, but, I'm in a really bad mood. I'm just in such a lousy mood. I went on a block rampage. I'm in such a bad mood. Really bad mood. I'm resentful about so many things. I'm unhappy, and angry, and frustrated, and irritated, and resentful. I don't know what to do about these feelings, or what's causing them. I think that I've been able to get The Complete Letters from Sanford Street to be compliant with the community standards. It took a while. A long while.

...

Chestnut and Hazel now has a LinkedIn page. Yeah. I didn't really do much with the Chestnut and Hazel Facebook page. I don't know how much other stuff I should set up for it. This is a lot of. stuff. I really. I'm really wanted to start to make something of Chestnut + Hazel, and I want it to be more than just a blog. I want to keep the blog, of course, but I want to make Chestnut & Hazel into something. I have a few ideas, but I'm really just not there yet.

The main idea I've come up with is a kind of travel guide. Or a road guide or something.

I'm experiencing real dread for the workday ahead. I can't believe that I'm already at a second write up in less than a month. On the one hand I've honestly been working here, at the same company, for longer than I've really work at any company, and, I'm honestly kind of interested in maybe doing something else but I'm just not really sure what that something else would be at this point.

I don't want to be in a desperate position in the event that I'm on the job market again. This is a nightmare. A real nightmare, and I'm really not ready to start looking again. 

When I think about the things I could possibly do, one of the things is working on chestnut + hazel more seriously, but like, there's still the very real issue of paying whatever living expenses I have to deal with. I really don't know what to do, and I don't know what I would do. I'm really dreading the moment where I hit GAME OVER. Real dread. I don't know what to do, or what to look for or how to approach things. The one thing is that, last time. The last few times I've applied for work, I didn't really have a hard time finding something.

I left work early. That was a stupid decision, but, I'm in a really bad mood. I'm just in such a lousy mood. I went on a block rampage. I'm in such a bad mood. Really bad mood. I'm resentful about so many things. I'm unhappy, and angry, and frustrated, and irritated, and resentful. I don't know what to do about these feelings, or what's causing them. I think that I've been able to get The Complete Letters from Sanford Street to be compliant with the community standards. It took a while. A long while.

...

Chestnut and Hazel now has a LinkedIn page. Yeah. I didn't really do much with the Chestnut and Hazel Facebook page. I don't know how much other stuff I should set up for it. This is a lot of. stuff. I really. I'm really wanted to start to make something of Chestnut + Hazel, and I want it to be more than just a blog. I want to keep the blog, of course, but I want to make Chestnut & Hazel into something. I have a few ideas, but I'm really just not there yet.

The main idea I've come up with is a kind of travel guide. Or a road guide or something.

I'm experiencing real dread for the workday ahead. I can't believe that I'm already at a second write up in less than a month. On the one hand I've honestly been working here, at the same company, for longer than I've really work at any company, and, I'm honestly kind of interested in maybe doing something else but I'm just not really sure what that something else would be at this point.

I don't want to be in a desperate position in the event that I'm on the job market again. This is a nightmare. A real nightmare, and I'm really not ready to start looking again. 

When I think about the things I could possibly do, one of the things is working on chestnut + hazel more seriously, but like, there's still the very real issue of paying whatever living expenses I have to deal with. I really don't know what to do, and I don't know what I would do. I'm really dreading the moment where I hit GAME OVER. Real dread. I don't know what to do, or what to look for or how to approach things. The one thing is that, last time. The last few times I've applied for work, I didn't really have a hard time finding something.

Good lord. I got written up again. Write up number 2. I think that it was last Monday I was written up, then, I worked just a few hours on. Okay, so it was last Sunday that I was written up, I worked just a few hours on Monday, and then took off to Salt Lake City. Jeeze, I didn't even know I could get written up on the basis of four hours of under-performance.

...

Fourteen hours. That's how much time I put in this week. So today will put me at twenty-four. I had no idea I missed that much work. I feel a little bit like garbage. I need to think. I have to watch out as far as missing work goes. I have enough unpaid time available to use, but of course, not enough money.

...

Getting rid of accumulated junk. This and that. When I went on my road trip to Salt Lake City, I had some recyclables that I wanted to recycle, but, at some point I said: "forget about it" and threw it in the trash. Editing this massive Sanford Street post is taking a while. I'm doing it little by little, removing anything that might be offensive. I'm still not sure how any of this can be an issue, since it's all text, and I don't really linger on any particular topic for a huge percentage of any given post, so, I really don't know how this all got flagged.

Right now I don't even want to go into work. Maybe my mood will change, who knows. I have a few hours, and I should nap a little more.

Something just slipped my mind. I was just thinking about something, and whatever it was, it just slipped my mind. whatever it was. I think that I remember now. What I wanted to say is that I want to get back in to going to the movies on a regular basis, or seeing movies or whatever. I haven't seen any in a long time, and, yeah, I don't know. I don't know where to start. I did get a chance to see Oppenheimer, and that was basically it. I haven't really thought to keep up with what is going to be released and all of that.

...

Today is Saturday, and I have work later tonight. Class is over and I'm going to take a nap. I had a long weekend, especially considering that I took 2 days off, in retrospect that was somewhat silly, I could have done that later in the week, but, at the same time I was just really in a garbage mood, and I don't know, I really had to get out or something, or break away. This coming week is going to be kind of long.

...

The work week starts in just 2 hours. I have class, and then work later on in the day. I have to continue cleaning up the Complete Letters from Sanford Street, I figure that most of what I'm doing is cutting things out, and removing things, or whatever, that seems inappropriate, so, that's basically it.

...

A Series of 24 Logos for Chestnut + Hazel

...

A Series of 24 Logos for Chestnut + Hazel

These are a few of the logos I've come up with.

...

Introduction

These are notes taken while living in Arlington, Texas on Sanford Street. I lived on Sanford Street from June 2020 to October 2022. This is currently in the process of being edited. These posts are a mix or journal entries, reflections and introspections, thoughts, stream of consciousness writings, and just a general mix of thoughts, worries, and plans for the future.

...

1

This is kind of annoying. I haven't 
really messed around with paper and ink
in such a long time: here I am, having
a total blast! This process really stinks:

First, write it up, then type, then print or post,
just another piece of shit thing to do
with time I have to flush down the toilet.
Quicker to snap, then upload to the host,
and then somehow this makes its way to you,
reading on your phone as you take a shit.

This is just another time in my life
where this is the only task for me to
pursue, and, filled with turmoil and strife
I tattoo these sheets of paper in blue.

Actually Writing Again
and it really isn't what I was hoping for it to be.
it is boring and I do not like it.

...

2

I went to jack in the box to get tacos again. this is something that i may have to do for a while. i need to keep my expenses low. i really do. nightmare. pain. i have to stop eating out at restaurants for the time being. i really want to sell or liquidate as much of my stuff as i can, but i'm not sure i will get around to it. what i think would be kind of a loss is throwing it away or giving it away like i did when i left Missouri. what i mean is. waiting to get rid of all my extra stuff until the absolute last minute, and not have the chance to recoup any money from it.

...

3

I go into work in just a few minutes. About the writing project. I have 2 ideas. Well. 3 maybe. 1 is a series of funny hypothetical experiences. 2 is a series of funny prospectus caricatures. 3 is a series just slice of life poems.

I've reviewed some of my old poems. And ive already done idea 3. It's probably the thing i write about most often. And most of the poems that i discarded and dont have any more. And couldnt track down were on that topic. Or of that style.

...

4

Somber music played by guys at the pool,
I'm listening from my sweltering room,
as the sun beats down, the water is cool,
I'd join them to alleviate my gloom.

I have this totally ridiculous 
thought that if I can't really sleep right now
then perhaps I should try to finish this
series of epic sonnets on the Dow

the Standard and Poor's, the Russell, and the 
Wilshire. Dumb old index crap, I'd like to
do something more sophisticated, a
person like me, though, consistently blue

in mood, testicles, temperament, and chips,
writing these sad songs with my hands and lips.

there are people
all around you and they say things
that you shouldn't hear.

Somber music played by guys at the pool,
I'm listening from my sweltering room,
as the sun beats down, the water is cool,
I should join and alleviate my gloom.

I have this totally ridiculous 
thought that if I can't really sleep right now
then perhaps I should try to finish this
series of epic sonnets on the Dow

the Standard and Poor's, the Russell, and the 
Wilshire. Dumb old index crap, I'd like to
do something more sophisticated, a
person like me, though, consistently blue

in mood, testicles, temperament, and chips,
writing these sad songs with my hands and lips.

...

5

I was thinking about this poem I wrote a while back. Maybe a few years ago. I was going through my Spam folder and I came across some Spam messages that I thought were funny. I have to go through the hella-zillions of posts that I put on this god dammed blog. Figure out what poems I like, and then submit them.

I don't think that I'll keep any poems unpublished for the time being. I think that i'll just post them as soon as I write them. There is no incentive for me to keep them unpublished unless there is some kind of. I don't even know.

I was going to complete some unemployment paperwork to collect payment on the few weeks that I wasn't working. But I'm not sure I will. I archived the letter they sent, and I'm just going to forget about it. This is somewhat horseshit. I don't know. I really don't know what I'm going to do about that.

Just totally irritated about it.

Asian beauties, Russian Beauties, and pills
to enlarge your penis, a lottery
check is waiting for you, and unpaid bills,
and deals on ancient Chinese pottery.

A handful of rice and a slice of spam
and a sheet of nori: wrap it around
and you have spam musubi, then you cram
it into your throat and swallow it down.

Spam is something that en masse you delete
because everything caught by the filter
is useless. Spam is something that you eat
unless your stomach feels out of kilter.

Spam is a nuisance, and also a food
one is deleted, the other is stewed.

and here
you are again
with your best friends eating

all the best
bacon and all the best
meats.

I was thinking about this poem I wrote a while back. 
Maybe a few years ago. I was going through my Spam folder and 
I came across some Spam messages that I thought were funny. I have 
to go through the jillions of posts that I put on this god dammed 
blog. Figure out what poems I like, and then submit them.
I don't think that I'll keep any poems unpublished 
for the time being. I think that i'll just post them as soon as I write them. 

There is no incentive for me to keep them unpublished unless there is 
some kind of. I don't even know.

I was going to complete some unemployment paperwork 
to collect payment on the few weeks that I wasn't working. But I'm not 
sure I will. I archived the letter they sent, and I'm just going to forget 
about it. This is somewhat horseshit. I don't know. I really don't 
know what I'm going to do about that.

Just totally irritated about it.

Asian beauties, Russian Beauties, and pills
to enlarge your penis, a lottery

sometimes there are empty bottles cracked

and they eat for the 

turkeys of the

nest
check is waiting for you, 
and unpaid bills,
and deals on ancient Chinese pottery.

four of the greatest people on earth

are the best of the wisest people who are not here

A handful of rice and a slice of spam
and a sheet of nori: wrap it around
and you have spam musubi, then you cram
it into your throat and swallow it down.

then you see where the people are and how they
do what they want to do.

Spam is something that en masse you delete
because everything caught by the filter
is useless. Spam is something that you eat
unless your stomach feels out of kilter.

Spam is a nuisance, and also a food
one is deleted, the other is stewed.

but wait until your brain is 
larger than it was before and take care of how
things go for you.

...

6

I don't know if blogging and writing is a waste of time, or if it's just not very remunerative. Or if it's just that it hasn't been remunerative so far. In other words. I don't really get paid for this, and I really don't make any money doing it. Should I do it? Should anyone do anything that doesn't pay? I want to say that writing is a waste of time for me, but this is based on the premise that all time spent must be converted into money, and that the conversion of time into money is the be all and end all of how time is utilized.

...

7

I'm trying to get organized. I'm getting there. I am getting organized. It's a slow process, especially after the kind of mess that I've gotten myself into. Sticky fucking situations. How long will it take to clean things up and get things back in order? I don't know. It could take a whole fucking year. Who knows?

Ekphrastics: Paper Wings

A white bed sheet sprawled across a sofa,
the scent of body odor and sweat hangs
in the air, a person in a coma
once laid here, this is the place where he bangs

a multitude of women, the moist sheets
contain messages written in semen
he does it once, twice, three times, then repeats
the ritual again like a demon.

How on earth does he get loads of women
to go along banging with him, it's a
mystery, he smells just like a lemon
that's why women give him the time of day.

If I had mysterious skills like him
I'd bang a million women on a whim.

...

8

but it was inappropriate for the time,
and it was not to be changed for the time
that it was there and it was
not to be changed for the majority.

Ekphrastics: Vacation Apocalypse

A jet plane on its way to Australia
carries passengers of every color,
race, and creed. Along the plains Thalia
inspires the shepherds to write another

poem about goats and sheep, that they do.
Little do they know that the planes above
spew great clouds of carbon dioxide through
the atmosphere and a multitude of

other gasses that cause global warming.
One area suffers from massive floods,
another suffers a drought, bugs swarming
fields eating everything they can. Blue bloods

and titans of industry hardly care
about all the pollution in the air.

You will probably not believe this shit
but I'm totally feeding my flowers
vitamin and caffeine pills chopped to bits
mixed with liquids and raining like showers

from a two liter plastic bottle on
the chopped up pieces of twigs, leaves and buds
on the potted dirt, clippings from the lawn,
and the bathtub's water awash with suds.

This is strange stuff, and this is kind of fun,
this is an experience and maybe
an experiment too. The beating sun
feeding them from above, and then there's me,

placing nutrients at their feet. Buds brim
from behavior I copy from The Sims.

You will probably not believe this shit
but I'm totally feeding my flowers
vitamin and caffeine pills chopped to bits
mixed with liquids and raining like showers

from a two liter plastic bottle on
the chopped up pieces of twigs, leaves and buds
on the potted dirt, clippings from the lawn,
water from the bathtub awash with suds.

This is strange stuff, and this is kind of fun,
this is an experience and maybe
an experiment too. The beating sun
feeding them from above, and then there's me,

placing nutrients at their feet. Buds brim
from behavior I copy from The Sims.

...

9

The agony is real.
it's like a pain
somewhere in
the

it's like pain everywhere
and
well,
The agony is real.

I really have no idea what i was agonizing about in this post. it was September. it just seems so long ago, and i really don't know what was going on in my life at that time.

...

10

Well. This happened.
and you know
i didn't want it to happen

Well. This happened.
and i was hoping it
wouldn't happen again

Well. This happened.
and you would things I would have gotten
over it by now

I don't really remember what was going on in this posts. there are  a number of screen shots from my Robinhood portfolio. I don't think that i was doing anything interesting at this time, i don't think i was writing options. but I'm really not sure.

...

...

548

best of all you can see
that I've been telling you
what you need to
see well here it
is.

Here's a poem
Vladimir Putin is a total Jerk
Who says the US sells satellites on sticks
Maybe, indeed, these 
are words in your mouth
Be glad its not my massive 7.5 inch
Super Willie!
Your behavior in Europe is definitely the obscenest:
Hope you never taste my super Weiner sweetness!
Here's a poem
Vladimir Putin is a total punk
He said the US sells satellites on sticks
Maybe, indeed, these 
are words in your mouth
Be glad its not my massive 7.5 inch
Super Johnson!

...

549

I took care of the parking issue, renewing my lease, paying my card. I registered my car,
Bought stamps.

I don't know what the future holds, but, I've founds stamps useful.
I want to buy some coins, and maybe some money.
What else?

...

550

I would like to take a nap.
and get some rest
and really put my head down.
yeah. that's really what I would
like to do.

...

The Chestnut + Hazel Logo is complete, not because I think that it has achieved perfection, but because I'm just not going to work on it anymore. I'm going to register a copyright for all of the attempts, and the one that I'm going to use as a logo is the one I'm going to register the trademark for.























So that's it, that's the Logo, that's the trademark. I'm done, and again, I don't think that it's prefect, but it's at a point in it's evolution, and I'm at a point in my energy levels where I think I'm going to leave it here.

...

Well, I guess I'll leave it there for now, one of the issues is that I completed the paperwork to register a copyright for The Complete Letters from Sanford Street, and it needs to be published somewhere, so I have to leave it there, in it's more or less existing condition before starting to edit it and all that. I'm not sure what's so sensitive about it, since is strictly text.

...

I don't know what to do about this.



















This is such a long post, and going over everything is going to take an eternity. This could take a long time to edit. This is a nightmare. This is all text and I could swear that there is nothing totally unusual here.

I'm continuing to work through The Complete Letters from Sanford Street, removing anything that I think violates the community standards. Even if I didn't have to deal with Blogger, I still have to deal with AdSense, so I might as well do all of this.


...

I'm getting ready to finish some work that I've been working on for the past few days. As far as going on another road trip goes, to Utah or Idaho, that's really something that's going to have to wait. I signed up for overtime next week, and, that's not really going to leave any free time for me, I signed up for two quarter shifts, and then half shifts were later offered, but I couldn't take them because I had already taken the quarter shifts.

...

Today is Friday, and I'm not really feeling in a particularly good mood. It comes and goes, but I'm not really sure how to shake it, how to get rid of this feeling of sadness. It's hard to function. Thank God I'd finished my homework. I'm compiling my Letters from Sanford Street Series. I can't really believe how long ago this all was. The whole Texas thing. weird times, something out of a nightmare. Letter's from Sanford Street # 490 is where the New Orleans Road Trip Disaster is documented.

...

Good god. What is this? I'm so sick of it. Out of nowhere the unhappiness. Out of the blue, the blues.

...

Class is over, and I'm really tired. I'm going to take a nap.

...

While taking, or attempting to take a selfie, I noticed that I'm really nice and fat, and that I could stand to lose some weight.

...

What do I have to work on? what things do I need to work on? Is there anything I need to do, and I'm just missing it?

...






























...



















































Thursday and Friday I'm off work. I kind of wish that I had moved a shift later on in the week because, like always, I could have used the money. but, I don't know what it is but I'm just not performing well at work. I'm tired all the time, and no matter what I do, it's the same issue, I've been consuming substantially more caffeine, but, to no avail, I'm just too tired and fatigued, and then I get these moment where I'm paralyzed with sadness. I shouldn't have skipped two days of work,

...

I'm back home. I'm in a better mood. I have to think. If I go anywhere again, I think I'll wait until Wednesday Morning of next week. That's August 2nd. I'm working on a favicon. It's related to my class coursework, but, I wasn't required to make a favicon, just provide an example of one. but I decided I would make a favicon for Chestnut + Hazel.

...













...



it looks like it works.




















...




































...











































...





































...






































...









































...





I feel like this one is pretty close.













































...
















































...

Unrelated, but I did see something funny, and thought it was something else:











it turns out it was just for campaign contributions for some such politician or another, but, yeah, I don't know. i kind of swore off online dating a few months back, and really, I don't really want to try that again.

...





...



































...








































...




...

https://www.chestnutandhazel.com/

...





...




...




...






































...







...






...

I need to keep note of this, i was able to get the favicon to have a transparent background.

  <head>


  <link rel="shortcut icon" href="https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEjb8Hx5yW14LtVGekHze9pQh6b6GB3Dzr0J-NXdXc-jvCPt28Mcag8ISOKii-XCRgHxuqgmY3t1Ff0y9C1AOH-r-PwAjBZd0sQfXNWLLjyU3RRskbWAt5j7R7-N1gx-0sEo0MUYlvF6h7AGlSYM_AchZPOMCkBONFj0LFaxasH9AW6NuNlJrOk75y55FcQ/s16000/dSpFCwwAkjCupJi%20(1)%20asfddsaf.png">


  </head>


...


it looks like it works.















...

Where these things 

are is where
you want
them to be.

...

  <head>


  <link rel="shortcut icon" href="https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEjb8Hx5yW14LtVGekHze9pQh6b6GB3Dzr0J-NXdXc-jvCPt28Mcag8ISOKii-XCRgHxuqgmY3t1Ff0y9C1AOH-r-PwAjBZd0sQfXNWLLjyU3RRskbWAt5j7R7-N1gx-0sEo0MUYlvF6h7AGlSYM_AchZPOMCkBONFj0LFaxasH9AW6NuNlJrOk75y55FcQ/s16000/dSpFCwwAkjCupJi%20(1)%20asfddsaf.png">


  </head>























































if I have to plan for the next 20 years, the most obvious thing to do is not to work for some company that I don't
see myself working at for 20 years. you know. like I don't really see myself working there for 20 years, or even 2 years.

You know. There isn't a single company that I've ever worked for, or that I've ever applied for, that I really saw myself
working at for 20 years.

I mean the most obvious thing to do, if I'm planning for the next 20 years. is. to go back to college. develop some
new skill or whatever.

Adventure # 5 - 10/12/2023 02:48

So what am I thinking about right now. I got sidetracked from putting down my thoughts for Adventure # 4. Well.
I don't know. I tend to be bombarded with stuff. Various stuffs. Various things. This or that. Whatever. I started
obsessing over the color of the buttons on my landing page. made a little bit of progress. realized I don't know
jack about javascript. figured I'd get around to it later. and then I started 
obsessing over my project carousel. so that's basically what happened. I'm tying to recollect about what happend 
yesterday, and the things I'm thinking about for the next couple days. The forseeable future, which as of right now.
can be measured only. in days.

I got sidetracked yet again. I don't know where I was.

Quam pulchra es sicut ibi stabat Qui nunc te fruitur credulus aurea qui dolorem ipsum quia dolor sit amet consectetur 
ut labore et dolore magnam aliquam quaerat voluptatem Quae te dementia cepit Forsan et 
haec olim meminisse juvabit Militat omnis amans  omnia vincit amor  

I got sidetracked yet again. The above text should read something like 
How beautiful you are standing there! who gullibly believes you are everything? who seeks pain to derive some pleasure from pain? What madness
posesses you? We will remember this fondly: every lover is a fighter: Love conquers all.

This is basically just a collage of different latin quotes. Famous ones. including the most famous latin text of all: 

lorem ipsum.

This is supposed to be funny. The most famous latin quote should be omnia vincit amor, love conquers all, but I don't think that it is, i mean, more
well known than lorem ipsum. the other funny thing is that, delorem ipsum, is from, i guess, cicero, but his most famous line should actually be:

Carthago delenda est

and um, I guess I came across: Militat omnis amans, from Ovid
which translates to:

every lover
is
a fighter

Which is really funny because that's clearly a response to the phrase: "I'm a lover not a fighter." 
and he does this to omnia vincent amore as well, where he say something like:

Love conquers all? so too will I triumph over love!

but I couldn't find that quote online, or at least, I had a lot of trouble finding it because all searches for

Omnia vincent amore, ovid come up only with virgils original line.

anyway.

I got sidetracked again, I had an ititial version of project 8 that I was having a lot of trouble with, so, I stopped working on it and
started completely over. There is a screenshot of it in my media folder. I don't know what the issue was. or. I don't remember since project 8
feels like it was something I did such a long time ago, but whatever it was. I think it was that I was having trouble changing things. so I started with
a different templete or whatever it's called in wordpress, and deleted more or less everything but the color scheme, and re-did the entire
thing element by element. so. that's how it went. super easy and I really enjoyed it.

I feel like there was something I'm supposed to do today, but, whatever it is, it's clearly slipped my mind.

References: https://answers.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/forum/all/how-to-attach-an-image-to-a-mp3-file/6c51a647-4132-46e2-a51e-b15cbf2c396a
            https://www.last.fm/music/Glassjaw/Don+Fury+Sessions
            https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nQY3dbUsVgE

Adventure # 4 - 10/11/2023 23:04

There are a number of things on my mind, but I'm not sure what to write about first.

I might be able to get into UNLV. I have no idea how many times I've applied there, and for how many
different programs, but finally getting in would be nice. I feel so bad about dropping out of grad school
at UTA a year ago, and, if I ever get around to making it up to Yibing Du and Thomas Thompson, I'll reapply 
at somepoint in the future and get a degree at UTA.

anyway.

I'm glad it's still, only Wednesday, even if, at 23:13, it's pretty much already Thursday. I have a metting with,
I don't know exactly, the admissions person, or, well, it's critical that I meet with him in order to get into the program.

I'm glad it's still Wednesday. 

Adventure # 3 - 10/11/2023 21:16 - Originally Posted In CSS\style.css

This is probably going to be the least user friendly blog ever. Tell me: are you reading this? Is it nice and user friendly?
because I'm not sure I really care, you're basically reading my diary. Whether or not it's user friendly isn't really my problem.
One of the issues I have with what I post on chestnutandhazel.com is that It's hosted, or whatever, it's really just an account
on blogger.com, so since it's basically a social media account, I have to comply with the community guidles of blogger.com, and
since I have adsense active on that page, I also have to comply with any adsense advertiser standards, so I have my hands tied 
in many respects. chestnutandhazel.com continues to get flagged over and over and over, and in many cases I don't really want to 
deal with it right away.

the other issue is that I also have to post what I write somewhere, so that I can use the standard copyright registration form,
rather than the unpublished copyright registration form, so, that's another issue. so you know, it's kind of whatever.

  /* 

  i basically couldn't figure out how to do this in javascript, but since this is a styling concern, I don't feel the least bit bad
  about styling it with Cascading Style Sheets:  HAHAHAHA!

  https://www.w3schools.com/tags/tag_small.asp
  https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_font_size.asp  
  https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_font_size.asp

  Currently Watching: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uyzZW6fpzik
                      https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n3Q_4vjPMSE

                      he references magical realism, HAHAHA! robert coover has been my favorite author for years!

                      https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Coover


@KennethLarotYamat
2 hours ago (edited)

Attire: English Professor Vibes I really love that stoic sarcasm "At this point, as a worst case scenario, 
it can only fall an additional 100 Percent" "They had problems with the rent collection application, perhaps 
the most important piece of the technology of the business" " It has highly advanced facial recognition AI 
algorithms that gleaned insights such as: people enjoyed sitting next to windows"
  

  */

On this day
5 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
October 11, 2018
 
Shared with Public
The best number ever:
five hundred shillion forty five fillion decamore villion gigolo jizzilion dillie dough dillion

...

I remember this post, five years ago when I was here in Vegas

On this day
6 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
October 11, 2017
   
Shared with Public
I don't know what the heck I was thinking. I'm at #McDonald's and I ordered two mcdoubles, two mcchickens, 
twenty nuggets, two apple pies, a large fry, and a large drink.

...

On this day
6 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
October 11, 2017
 
Shared with Public
The smog is pretty bad in San Jose.

...

On this day
8 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat added a new photo to the album: Mobile Uploads.
October 11, 2015

Jekyll & Hyde 2, Kenneth Larot Yamat (2015) digital photography
This is a photograph of a mixed media composition. I took two paintings that I bought by a local artist, put a Zoloft pen 
on top of the painting of Jack Torrance, and then took pictures of my masterpiece, and then photo edited the result. 
The paintings are by Vanessa Callanta. what stood out to me about Callanta's Painting "All Work and No Play" was how 
calm Jack Torrance looked. i think it's the use of blue. Jack Torrance typically wore red shirts in The Shining.

...

On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
October 11, 2012
   
Shared with Public
TMH4 - Yesterday: Hump day. I can fix that hump. What hump? Always be closing.

...

"Salesforce Profile Deletion 1.0012331223122525365456456464554" by Kenneth Larot Yamat

This was my Sales Force profile while working at
Viator, a company owned by Trip Advisor
i was paid by Morris and Willner Partners
not a formal employee of Viator or Trip Advisor
or professional staffing group
I really miss working there
but i was obsessed with my boss Kristin
i don't think she would ever hire me again
i used her name and initials as some of my
passwords and i'm sure it came around to her
sorry my favorite boss in recent history
but i really would not want to work for any one else

Affiliations

*Senior Advisor of the plain in thy neatness Committee
*Subordinate Advisor of the snacks and beverages Department
*Secondary Associate at the Bureau of bookable options
*Tertiary Instructor of the TripAdvisor supplier acquisition Academy

Awards

*Nobel Peace Prize for the most facetious TripAdvisor review ever written
*Pulitzer Conflict Prize for most fatuous Viator review ever written
*Prix de Rome for the most factitious Flipkey review ever written
*Valedictorian of the Viator Confluence Content Institute
*Salutatorian of the TripAdvisor JIRA Tickets University

Academics

*Graduate of the Supplier Schmoozeery Seminary, Cum Laude
*Master of Fine Arts from the Supplier Complaints Academy, Magna Cum Laude
*Doctorate from the Bókun Cola Consumption Conservatory, Summa Cum Laude
*Smoker at the designated Flipkey smoker's location, Highest Honors
*Consumer of TripAdvisor Funyuns, Mediocre Honors
*Participant at the Viator Carrot Consumption Convention, Inferior Honors

...

https://www.poetryfoundation.org/poems/50372/ode-i-5-to-pyrrha

...

Ode I, 5: To Pyrrha
BY HORACE
TRANSLATED BY JOHN MILTON
What slender youth, bedew’d with liquid odors,
Courts thee on roses in some pleasant cave,
             Pyrrha? For whom bind’st thou
             In wreaths thy golden hair,
Plain in thy neatness? O how oft shall he
Of faith and changed gods complain, and seas
             Rough with black winds, and storms
             Unwonted shall admire!
Who now enjoys thee credulous, all gold,
Who, always vacant, always amiable
             Hopes thee, of flattering gales
             Unmindful. Hapless they
To whom thou untried seem’st fair. Me, in my vow’d
Picture, the sacred wall declares to have hung
             My dank and dropping weeds
             To the stern god of sea.

...

Literal English Translation
What slender boy, drenched in liquid perfumes,
presses hard upon you on many a rose,
Pyrrha, under cover of a pleasing cave?
For whom do you bind back your yellow hair,
 
Simple with elegance? Alas, how often will he lament
faithlessness and changed gods, and in surprise
He will marvel at
rough waters with black winds,
 
he who now enjoys you, believing, you are golden,
who hopes that you will be always free, always lovable,
he who is ignorant of the treacherous breeze!
Wretched are they for whom
 
you, untried, shine. As for me, the sacred wall
with its votive tablet declares that I have
hung up my dripping garments
to the god who rules over the sea.

...

Original Latin

quis multa gracilis te puer in rosa
  perfusus liquidis urget odoribus
      grato, Pyrrha, sub antro?
        cui flavam religas comam,

simplex munditiis? heu quotiens fidem
  mutatosque deos flebit et aspera
      nigris aequora ventis
         emirabitur insolens,

  qui nunc te fruitur credulus aurea,
qui semper vacuam, semper amabilem
      sperat, nescius aurae
         fallacis! miseri, quibus

  intemptata nites. me tabula sacer
  votiva paries indicat uvida
    suspendisse potenti
         vestimenta maris deo.

...

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lorem_ipsum

...

https://www.poetryfoundation.org/poems/50372/ode-i-5-to-pyrrha

...

https://en.wikisource.org/wiki/Translation:Odes_(Horace)/Book_I/5

...

Adventure # 2 - 10/10/2023 20:41

I'm more tired than ever. More than I can possibly imagine. Today was a long day. Small victories I guess.

Adventure # 1 - 10/10/2023 10:48

I consider this published, even if it's unlikley anyone will come across this
or read it. There are times when I want to write things, but, less and less I feel
the desire to write them on chestnutandhazel.com I don't know what it is, but, I'm
starting to feel more "On Stage" when I write and post things there.

Maybe a few years back it seemed, it felt like there wasn't anyone really, you know
reading it.

I need to be working on Project 11, but for some reason I'm just not really getting anything done.
I've managed to figure out where my Contact Form is. It's something that I haven't really messed with
in a while, but Project 11 entails messing with it. So. That's what I'm up to.

There's a lot of cleaning up that needs to be done with the index page of my Github Repository,
and a lot of that cleaning up, with the code, cleaning up the appearance of my code wouldn't
really change the outward appearance of my page. It would just make it easier to change things around
but, considering that the course is almost over, I'm not really sure how much it makes sense to really
do anything about it.

I really have to get Project 11 done. I was reviewing the recording of the class session, and
it looks easy, and, I remember it being easy when I was doing it. I don't remember, but I 
think that I napped through part of the class, and came back around to it later.

One of the things about the class is that, I'm much more open to distance learning, or online coursework, or virtual classrooms,
or whatever, now that I've done it, back in 2018 or 2019 I think that I was really skeptical about it, and
I kind of brushed off a recruiter for an online degree program, but um, I think that I'm more open to it now.

I tried to get the favicon to work on GitHub, but, I can't seem to figure it out, and, since it's not an assignment,
I really didn't pursue the thing past the point of absolute frustration.

The favicon is more vanity than any kind of practical kind of a thing. Like I don't have a practical reason for setting 
up the favicon on GitHub other than the desire to have one.

I'm exhausted, and I really haven't done anything for project 11 yet.
I want to take a nap, but, that's a little bit of a risk considering that it's due today.
and, I really have to get to it because, in all probability, it's something that can be done in an hour or two, at most.
I'm so tired. I want to get a soda.

         
         
         
         


         I don't know what to do about CodePen. Migrating things to github is a small nightmare.
         
          <!-- 10102023 0423 form input validation project 11 -->
          <!-- 10102023 0442 form input validation project 11 -->
          <!-- I can't figure out where those mozzarella sticks are 10102023 0442 form input validation project 11 -->
          <!-- found those mozerella sticks, they were on linkedin, don't use linkedin to host images. they break after a while -->
          <!-- Spent nearly an hour updating chestnut and hazel hamburgers, an assignment from way early in the course the image links broke -->
          <!-- so I had to rehost the images elsewhere and create new links.  anyway back to project 11 10102023 0538-->
          <!-- 10102023 1008 I got sidetracked with a number of other things and I'm still working on this. -->

I'm feeling incredibly scatter brained. I have a project due for my software and web development course today, and I haven't even started. 
This should be simple, so I'm not too worried about it, but, at the same time, I know from the past that these things could take quite 
a while if I hit a brick wall.

There are other issues that I'm facing, especially on the income front. The temp assignment was not a particularly good fit, and, I 
really get the feeling that I should avoid any kind of warehouse or factory work, even though, that's sort of what I've been doing 
for the past five years, but I don't have the slightest clue what to look for.

Life is such an unbelievable struggle. I don't really know what to do about money. Somewhere in the back of my mind there's 
this voice telling me that I should stop looking for a job or employment or whatever, and, that I should focus on trying to 
make money doing stock market shit.




https://www.chestnutandhazel.com/2019/06/reflection-714-by-chestnut-and-hazel.html


Reflection # 714 by Chestnut and Hazel
I don't know exactly what I've been spending on buying lunch and soda at work, 
but I know that it is too damn much, I want to say it is around 15 dollars per day. 
Too fucking much. I have to cut down on that for sure.
By Chestnut + Hazel at June 11, 2019 

Notes written on 10/10/2023 @ 10:19 AM

I think that I wrote this post while I was working at Case New Holland. I'm surprised that I was really spending that much. I 
Wonder what I was buying? I don't really remember. I think that it was mostly energy drinks. I don't remember my exact hours. 
It was overnight is as much as I remember. In Cameron, MO there isn't really much to eat if you're up at odd hours.

I'm working on Project 11 for my Web and Software Development course. I'm not really getting much done. I'm getting sidetracked
with other things. I'm really amazed that I get so little done, especially considering that I've had few other obligations other
than class these past few months. I really wonder what I've been doing.

Earlier in the course I would have a lot of fun playing around with our daily assignments, but, I haven't really done that in a
while, even though there have been plenty of opportunities to do so.

...

"Clothes 28" by Kenneth Larot Yamat By Chestnut ﹠ Hazel at January 19, 2019 originally posted at chestnutandhazel.com

I watched two documentaries.
One on the Sino Japanese war.
The one that morphed into world
War 2. And one on the Japanese
Industrial revolution.

So. I wanted to think about why
Things ended at the OTA. It's been
A while. And I think. Deserves some
Reflection.

Lets say that all decisions can be
Simplified. That all decisions
Come to a fork. Bifurcate or
Whatever. Like. You are faced
With a decision. And your choices
Are always two. At first.

Think of this. In a standard road.
You have two choices when you
Reach an intersection. You can
Continue down the road. Or turn.
Two choices. If you choose to
Turn. You can choose left or right.
Two choices. And so on. Some
Might think of this as three choices.
You can travel straight. Left. Or right.
But you can also think of it the way
I did. Of two choices. One choice
Having two sub choices.

Which way of thinking is more
Simple? Which way of thinking is
Less convoluted? Which way of
Thinking is cleaner. I have no idea.
But I think. That bifurcation allows
Points in the decision making
Process to be more clearly marked.
And either way. You can still account
For all possible decisions.

So back to my former boss at the
OTA. She could have extended me.
Or she could have decided not to
Extend me. We already know what
Decision she made. But let's figure
Out what she was thinking.

Now. It didn't bother me that I wasn't
Formally employed by the OTA.
Who cares right? Some people do
Though. Some people do like to
Be official or whatever.

And I'm not being dismissive
About the desire to be official.
I wanted to be official with Ash.
But she didn't want to be official
Unless we were super fucking
Official.

In my thinking though. Even when a
Person is formally employed. Their
Continued employment is really
Just an extension. It just goes by
A different term. People think of
It differently. But I don't. People
Think of it differently because
Different words are used. But I'd say
The mechanics of being a contractor
On an extension basis. And being
A formal employee whose
Performance is measured at
Regular intervals. It's the same
Thing. If you aren't handed a pink
Slip when you show up for work.
You have been extended. Haha.

So she could have extended me.
Or not extended me. If she extended
Me. I don't know what would
Happen. Would she have to buy
My contract from the staffing
Agency? And pay some kind
Of a premium to do so? I have no
Idea.

I don't know what the extension
Decisions would be. If she would
Have been forced to decide whether
Or not to keep me on a contract
Basis indefinitely. Or decide to
Make me a formal employee of the
OTA. I have no idea. Really no idea.

And maybe that is where the issue
Arose. Maybe the issue was that
She had to decide whether or not
To formalize my employment or
Not. She may have wanted to
Extend. But could not formalize
My employment for whatever
Reason. And maybe formalizing
Was the only way to extend.

So basically. Maybe she wanted to
Extend. But not formalize. Since
She could not extend without
Formalizing. She therefore could
Not extend. So she decided not
To extend. And maybe that was it.

By Chestnut ﹠ Hazel at January 19, 2019 

...

"Clothes 34" by Kenneth Larot Yamat  By Chestnut ﹠ Hazel at January 20, 2019 originally posted on chestnutandhazel.com

I want to say that body language
Has certain deficiencies. A lack
Of clarity. And an obsession with
Minutia. It has potential for
Miscommunication. And
Misinterpretation. It is difficult
To convey meaning clearly
Through body language. It
Is difficult to interpret meaning
Through body language.

I think of the invention of
Writing. And why writing is
Nessecary. It's because. Someone.
Somewhere. Kept making the wrong
Facial expressions. Kept making
The wrong hand gestures and
Vocal inflections. And said fuck this.
I will now create writing.

...

"Clothes 34" by Kenneth Larot Yamat By Chestnut ﹠ Hazel at January 20, 2019 originally posted on chestnutandhazel.com

I want to say that body language
Has certain deficiencies. A lack
Of clarity. And an obsession with
Minutia. It has potential for
Miscommunication. And
Misinterpretation. It is difficult
To convey meaning clearly
Through body language. It
Is difficult to interpret meaning
Through body language.

I think of the invention of
Writing. And why writing is
Nessecary. It's because. Someone.
Somewhere. Kept making the wrong
Facial expressions. Kept making
The wrong hand gestures and
Vocal inflections. And said fuck this.
I will now create writing.

By Chestnut ﹠ Hazel at January 20, 2019 

...

Archived Content 07/09/2020

I know what to do now, like going forward and stuff. I'm going to say this:


"Yeah, I know a whole bunch of stuff, all the craziest dirt and everything. Basically. I have all the information you need, even the things that other people don't know, and even the things that other people couldn't even imagine."

maybe you know the things that you haven't
already learned so you will learn them.

...

<!-- vscode test commit  testing a commit and sync directly from VS Code 10142023 0816-->

...