1

I don't know where else to write this. 
I could write it on my GitHub page, but 
I kind of screwed up that page while reorganizing 
things, so I'll just write it here.

I'm applying for a number of programs as UNLV: the MFA 
Creative Writing Program, the MS Quantitative Finance 
Program, and the MS Computer Science program.

I didn't realize this until just now: each program has a 
different due date, the MFA application is due first, 
or earliest or whatever, in January.

They are all of the Fall semester of 2024. I have to get the 
MFA application ready before January. I wrote 
one poem recently, and I really can't 
remember the last time I wrote one:

2

"The Young Woman who is the Post Office" (2022)

The rural carrier associate is a 
young woman with a lisp that lingers
long enough to wreck your week, and
fiery jade eyes that burn in your
mind every subsequent week.

I try to buy stamps, twenty is too much for
one stamp, and she can't break bills, and
I can't have them all, I ask to trade stamps,
one for one, she's not sure that's okay,
so she phones a friend; she asks
if I have exact change and I say:
yes! I do.

3

Kenneth Larot Yamat

"This Is Just To Say Something About The Young Housewife" (2023)

I totally ate all of the  so many    fried turkeys
that were hanging out
by the red wheelbarrow
you know     the one glazed with
soy sauce and beside the 
                      kentucky fried 
                             kung pao chickens
           which 
themselves were drenched in
              tabasco sauce

I request neither forgiveness
nor do I intend to apologize for
          my actions 

because 

I spent several hours
of quality time
with a certain young housewife

                    who

braless and dressed in negligee 

          and 

whose wild hair suggested
she spent even more additional
even higher quality time with
both the ice man
and the fish man

       either sequentially 
               or 
              simultaneously 
                     neither would surprise me

left me    breathless    exhausted
as well as      famished

I thought I gave a good
account of myself

but then along came 
          the milkman
and    she             still
   had enough energy 
       for 
    round four

I was there
I saw it all

4

I'm tired. What do I have due today? I have a few class assignments and a Project due. I've been working on 
the project for days, and I've had a really hard time with it. I'll insert a few iframes below.

5

anyway, I'm kind of lost and don't really know what to do, i need to go over this course material. I don't know why this most 
recent project has monopolized my time. I got tied down with front-end 
aspects that had almost nothing to do with the assignment, and I'm irritated about it.

My new restart version of project 14 did not go as well as I thought it would have gone. I don't know what to do. I'm in a bad mood. 

There are two things that I'm thinking about doing, forking project 14 version 2 to start project 14 version 3, making one more attempt 
at the iframe carousel, and then getting the JSON and asynchronous stuff into project 14.

the other idea is going back to project 14 version 1 and just shoving the 2 additional things into it, it's a mess, but it works, 
and the cleaner version 2 doesn't work.

Irritated.

6

i'm in class right now, and all this new material is going way over my head. I'm tired, and I haven't paid attention in class in weeks. 
most of the time I'm in class trying to figure out past assignments.

7

my nails are. and I swore I just cut them, but they are long enough to be interfering with my ability to type.

8

do I have any money?

9

I'm a little bit lost right now.

10

I'm trying to think. There are a number of things I need to get done today.
I finished project 14, there were a lot of things that I wanted to do with
it, but, I ended up just going with the leaflet integration option, and
even doing that took a mountain of time. I integrated leaflet to my
Hamburgers project, and Connections for Mobile assignment.

I have a few class assignments, and I also have
some kind of professional development project that I have to
do.

and
I think that might be it.

11

Chestnut + Hazel was
originally founded as the DM Literary Review.

12

I really don't know what to do about money right now.

13

"Everything I had done has to be done over; I was on the wrong track entirely, and after working hard 
most of that time: I'm still only at the beginning." - Gustave Flaubert

14

I don't know what to do right now.

15

[Development Notes]

<!-- https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40211944/stop-playing-video-in-iframe-when-modal-is-closed -->
<!-- check for deployment after a while. this was moved from codepen into vscode and uploaded to GitHub to make this function better.
I really want to update this, maybe even change the look of it. -->

16

I think this was about my chestnut + hazel connections page for project 14.

17

I'm uploading content to my YouTube channel, I'm not sure how exciting these videos are. 
some of these videos are very long, and take a long time to upload as well, and I can't really upload all of them at once because 
my account doesn't have those permissions just yet.

18

my nails aren't that long, but I had to cut them because they are messing with my ability to type again. 

19

I really don't know what to do about money.

20

[Development Commentary]

<!-- [11/05/2023 06:00 AM] [11/04/2023 23:10] -->
<!-- [11/05/2023 06:00 AM]
[11/05/2023 06:00 AM] [Development Commentary] [11/05/2023 03:35] [11/05/2023 03:40]
[11/05/2023 06:00 AM]

Even with as much time as I've spent on this, and seemingly no closer to getting a JSON file working, I seem to have
made a breakthrough with this carousel. The iframes look like they are interactive in a way that they were not interactive
in the original Project 10 version of the carousel.

I'm setting up links to see if the iframes in the carousel work, and if they do, then that means this should work. and I can
get project 14 completed, even though this seems like it was kind of a long digression from the requirements of project 14.

-->

21

I'm spending some time today to work on my blog, as well as my YouTube channel. 
I don't know. I need to do something with these gaming videos, like add 
narration, or, say something, about what I'm thinking, about what some of my 
decisions are when I'm playing. I'm kind of thinking of going with the Vanilla 
version, rather than playing with so many mods, but, if there isn't one annoying 
issue with the game, there is usually some other annoying issue. One thing 
that takes up a lot more time than I would like it to, is the whole business of 
managing the faction and ruling dynasty.

22

This is one of my earlier videos from the channel, when I 
spent time reading poetry and all of that. It's 
interesting to see all of the voice over stuff 
that can be done with text to speech programs. I actually 
saw an advertisement for one that I was really impressed with.

23


24

"Here's to momma dollar, and poppa dollar!"

25

I don't know what to do about money.

26

This is such a nightmare. Everything.

27

There is an issue with posting youtube 
videos in iframes, they have to 
have /embed/ in the source path. 
headache. I thought that the video just wasn't 
totally live or deployed on YouTube, but it 
might be totally not going to work.

28

 It seems like my upload limit for my YouTube channel is 8 videos 
 for any 24 hour period. Nothing I've produced 
 is particularly interesting, but, I'll come up with something.

29

Total War  ROME 2 Battle of Ephesus

The Spartans are on the warpath throughout Asia 
Minor, no one can stop them, except for the even more amazing 
Roman Military! They will be stopped! Even if they! are! Sparta!

30

I'm spending way too much time playing 
computer games. I'm trying to make something 
out of it by recording videos 
while I play, but the videos I make aren't 
all that amazing.

31

There is something that I'm thinking about right now.
well. sometimes I listen to music or a documentary
while I work on other things. sometimes as an attempt at 
multi-tasking.

but right now it just seems more appropriate to work on 
this epic and fabulous poem of mine!

32

Good Lord! I spent the entire day gaming, the 
entire past few days actually, and I've not 
gotten any real work done, 
or, well, I don't really feel like I've gotten 
any work done.

33

I worked on my blog a little bit, made a few videos of me 
fixing broken links on my blog. I have to work on Project 15, 
and I really haven't even looked at what's required. 
There's an issue with creating an embedded iframe, it's not really
possible to link just the YouTube page into an iframe as a 
regular source, and suddenly I realize why, 
you only want the video, and not the whole page that's on YouTube. 

34

Walking Through The Grass (2019)

I remember walking 
to work, about a mile or so 
to a hotel where I worked, and
I had to walk through the grass
and the grass
was always wet, really wet, and 
my pants would get wet too 
and my boots would get wet 
and my socks would get wet.

36

I spent a lot of time on that project, I really enjoy the end result. I 
still want to make the contact modal work. These are comments removed from my GitHub files.

37

All the videos are now uploaded to YouTube. It took so long. i deleted my miscellaneous 
repository, but then, i created a new miscellaneous repository because I have the index to that 
repository linked elsewhere, so, I didn't want them to break, so I fixed it before it became a problem.

38

These videos that I've uploaded to YouTube today are taking forever to load. This time, I made the 
decision to upload the largest files, rather than whatever random videos occurred to me to upload. 
I figured that I could get these large files out of my 
storage space. but, yeah, they are taking forever to upload.

39

My software development course will be over next week. This comes as kind of a relief, but I'm also 
kind of sad about it, I really enjoyed this class. I don't know how I'm going to continue to stay 
motivated to work on web and software development projects without project being due, everything I 
work on after class will be a self directed project. Yeah, I've been spending way too much, 
mountains of time playing computer games.

40

There is kind of a chicken and egg problem going on here. I need to 
get an MMR vaccine to attend UNLV, I got my first dose something like 
5 years ago when I applied to the MBA program at UNLV, I need to get a 
second dose. I must have left Las Vegas before getting my second dose of 
the MMR vaccine. I thought I took it already when I applied at UTA, but 
the vaccine that UTA required was a meningitis vaccine. The funny thing 
about the UTA thing, the meningitis vaccine, was that they kept sending 
me notices to submit proof of vaccination for meningitis, but when I got 
around to getting the vaccine and uploading proof, it turns out I didn't 
really need to get it, it was for undergrads only. Waste of money.

41

So now I have to figure out how to get the MMR vaccine, the second dose. The 
chicken and egg problem that I'm facing is that I need my MMR vaccine to enroll 
in classes at UNLV, but I have to be enrolled in classes at UNLV to get a Student 
ID card, and use the Student Health Services and get vaccinated. This isn't a huge 
problem, it just means that I have to get vaccinated somewhere else.

42

I was experimenting with layouts for katastrophiena.com, and I really liked 
the layout that I selected, and I actually decided to apply it to 
chestnutandhazel.com. I think that it's really nice, and nothing 
really broke. I recently. I've been making all the measurements 
for the iframes percentage based, all the dimensions percentage 
based, because I figured that I might change layouts from time to 
time, and it seems to have kept things from getting messed up with 
the new layout, or, style.

43
 
I don't know what to do right now. 
I should be working on Project 16 right 
now. It's actually. I don't actually have 
to turn it in, but I should do it because 
I need the experience of doing it, and, 
well, I've just felt a whole lot less motivated lately.

44

My mind is kind of all over the place 
right now. I have a lot of things to worry 
about right now. I'm watching The Untouchables, 
Brian de Palma (1987), and this really is a good 
movie. Class starts in a few minutes. There is 
only one more day of class left, Saturday the 18th, 
but it's just a get-together kind of for the final day of class.

I have this other laptop, a second one, and it's 
extremely slow, and I use it for watching the live course 
via zoom, and I use my main laptop to do the work, but this 
thing, my other laptop, is taking forever to load, it's always 
slow, it's been slow since I bought it, and I'm really 
surprised with how slow it is. I bought it during one of the 
road trips, but, it's really super 
slow. so slow that it hardly functions.

45

I remember these poems from when I moved to Missouri from Las 
Vegas. I remember I didn't find work there for a 
while. In Missouri. I did get a job at the prison in town, 
but then, it wasn't really a job that was suitable 
for me, and, it wasn't a good environment 
for me either. I don't know what to do right now.

46

I'm using VS code right now, working on compiling the Adventures
of Chestnut + Hazel into a unified EPIC poem of the most EPIC 
proportions!

47

I am failing MIS 768. Some of this is my own doing. 
when is it not my own doing? but
one of the things
that makes this first semester different from the
web development course I took with Correlation One
is that I'm working right now. 

48

I decided to take work off during the Fall, but I've 
decided that I can't really afford to do that during the 
spring. Nightmare. 

49

I don't know. like. this might be 
the end of my educational pursuits.

I'm going to post some old poems I wrote, 
probably while I was at Mosaic, or during 
the first few months when I first came to Missouri.

50

I guess you could call it
something of a wooded area.

51

There are trees and stuff and
A little bit of other flora.

52

I really like it.

I want to put all the ashes there
and let the trees absorb the nutrients of
the ashes. Maybe someday there will be
a cure for whatever illness needs curing
in that tree.

53

After we burn the trash, we look for any metal
that we can sell to the scrap yard. Burnt Tires
leave wires of metal that can be sold to the
scarp yard. What metal is it. I don't know.

54

All the gaming videos that I've captured are either being uploaded to my 
Chestnut + Hazel channel, or my personal channel, so that's out of the way, 
but many of the files are very large, and they are taking a long time to 
upload, so I have to find something else to do in the meantime, I was supposed 
to update my browser either today or yesterday, but I forgot to do it, with all 
of this uploading I have to do, I have to keep my browser open. So I basically 
haven't closed it and re-opened it to update my browser.

55

My plans for the next few days are to finish uploading all of my gaming videos 
to my Chestnut + Hazel YouTube channel, and then hold off on gaming for a while. 
I could probably get all of that done today. I have so many videos uploaded already, 
and I think that I have about 20 more that I'm in the process of uploading. I scheduled 
them way out into the future, all the way until the end of 2024 because I didn't want them 
all dropping at once. Once that's done I'm going to focus on putting together my UNLV 
applications. I just noticed something funny, I noticed that when Slack loads, the 
screen says: Reticulating Splines, which is from SimCity.

I have 7 videos left to upload. A lot of these videos have just been sped up with 4x or 
16x to reduce the file size, and make the action happen more quickly.

56

I'm really happy about completing the Software 
Development course, and I'm really proud of 
this. Tomorrow is the last day of class, but it's 
not really a full class. I'm not sure what to do next.

57

Below I've posted an old video of a poetry reading video that I made years ago.

58

I'm not sure what to work on right now. Today is 
Sunday, and everything is kind of a free day for a 
while. I should look for work. Apply for a few positions. 
I made a few game playing videos where I have voice overs or 
narrations what what's going on, and what decisions I'm making. 
Even with the videos sped up to 10x to 16x, there still seems 
to be a lack of things to say.

59

so what am I up to right now? I'm really just making gaming videos and 
uploading them to YouTube. I tried making a YouTube short, but I think my 
video was over budget, time wise. I guess I'll find out. I could have sworn that 
I've seen YouTube shorts that are in the 4 minute range. I bought this down to 1:25 
minutes, but I'm not sure if that's short enough to be a short.

60

I'm feeling worried about the future. 
I went in for my entrance exam for the 
Spanish Translation program, and I don't 
really think that it went well: I didn't 
really study because I spent these last few 
days immersed in my gaming, and didn't do 
anything else really, and now, I'm sick of the 
game, and now I probably have time to do productive 
stuff. Part of the reason I wasn't really motivated 
to study was because I did manage to get accepted into 
the Entrepreneurship and Innovation program, and I already 
enrolled in as many classes as I plan to take, and my 
original goal was to get into one program or the other.

The thing that I'm worried about for the future is money. 
I've been out of work for 4 months, and I also 
haven't had any income, money coming in during 
that time. I tried to sign up for food delivery 
stuff, but that didn't really work. I don't really 
know what to do. I don't know what to do. I really 
don't know what to do. I would like to be working, 
but I really need to find the right role. I need to 
land the right role, the right position.

61

I'm not really looking for an employer right now.
and this comment is related to stanza 60 above,
this is akward because these are written right after
the other, but happened at very different times.
I was looking for a role last year, but not this year. 
four months later.

62

I have an exam tomorrow, and I'm not even really prepared. In 
fact I'm not even really prepared at all. I was working on this 
Spanish Translations project, but it really hasn't gone anywhere, 
and it's not even close to being done. I also have to find work; 
I thought about doing the food delivery and rideshare stuff, but, 
I had an incident today where I concluded that it might not really be 
something that is workable. There are major traffic issues in Las Vegas 
that make driving really frustrating, and I'm not really sure I would be 
able to do it. I still need to find work, though. Or some source of income.

63

there was an employer 
event at UNLV that I would have 
attended, and that I was going to attend.
but I did not attend the event. things weren't 
going well in MIS 768, so I scrapped any plans for 
that week, only for things to really go downhill 
in that class.

64

I shaved, and I think that my face looks a lot nicer than it 
does when I have facial hair, but I didn't shave my head, but 
I still think that I look a lot nicer when I have my face shaved. 
I exfoliated, and I had a lot of dead skin and all that. It was 
really kind of gross, but I was really happy to get my face clean. 
I worked on my translations project. 

The favicon stuff is annoying. sizing and stretching things. making 
it look right it the browser tab. important. but annoying.

65

I've been kind of not really doing anything lately. Nothing, other than playing on the computer, 
and really just playing from the start over and over, again and again. I bought a phone mount, 
like the kind for my car, but I mounted it on my wall next to my desk. This is kind of cool, and 
I've been thinking about doing this for a while, but didn't do it, because I didn't really want to 
spend the money on something like this, but it really helps because I usually watch movies on my 
phone, rather than my computer, and when my phone is just sitting on my desk I can't really see 
what's going on on-screen.

I have 1 more class I need to enroll in at UNLV. Just like at UTA, I have to request permission 
for pretty much every class I try to enroll in. I'm not sure how long I should wait before 
reaching out a second time. The annoying thing is, is that I didn't realize before hand that 
I needed to request permission for every class I need to take, so I didn't ask permission for 
both classes the first time, I only requested permission for the one class I thought that I 
needed to request permission for. I thought the other class didn't require it, so I'm waiting 
for the other class to be unlocked.

66

Spring (2023)

Translated from Primaveral (1888) by Rubén Darío

During the blossoming months, my
rhymes run in circles through a vast
forest to collect nectar and
aromatics from blooming flowers.

Come, my love! to our place: the hallowed
grove where an ambience of love floats
above the aromas of the foliage of Spring.

A bird flies from tree to tree and
greets you, and your face, blushing
and as beautiful as the dawn and the
superb oaks, tall and robust,

tremble as you walk by, its leaves
shake and its branches rise to give
way to the queen. My Love! It's the
sweet spring season.

67

There are a number of challenges I'm facing when it comes to monetizing my blogs 
or my other content. There are a whole bunch of Search Console issues that I'm not 
clear about how to fix, and then there are minimum viewer requirements on YouTube 
that will take a while to complete, and then there are content issues with Blogger 
that aren't really clear to me how to resolve.

68

I want to get a new gaming laptop, but I have to wait until next year. One that 
meets the minimum requirements for the games I'm looking to play, even the new 
ones, doesn't look too expensive, it's more than I would normally spend on a 
laptop for general use, but it seems less than what gaming laptops costs, or, 
what I'm used to seeing gaming laptops cost. One of the things I'm not too sure 
about is how long the deal will last, or if 
gaming laptops should drop in general later on.

I'm trying to turn my gaming into something like a business, but, yeah, I don't 
fully know how to do that. I seem to be getting more attention my my regular 
YouTube channel when compared to my Chestnut + Hazel YouTube channel.

69

These posts. and this is just a note. these stanzas, although 
they are numbered sequentially, the events they refer to are not 
in. they are not necessarily in chronological order.  

they might not even be in the order 
they were originally published in. and not in the order 
they were originally written in. so. good luck to anyone 
who read this.

70

There
are no words to 
describe
the agony of
eating too much
food at the buffet
when you go to
the buffet 
and eat all 
that you can eat.

There was a place that i came across 
today while I was out DoorDashing, 
and it was a place called ONO or 
something. Ono Sushi. I just looked 
it up. I think that I might want to eat there.

71

I did food delivery work today. I delivered 1 meal. It didn't take long to 
get the first order, but after that order, the zone I was working in dried 
up, so I switched zones, once I got there, there weren't really any orders 
to pick up, so I figured there wasn't really much work that day, so I went 
home. I've very rarely been able to make delivering food profitable.

72

If she asks me 
why I wasn't able to 
get anything done while 
she was away, I will tell her 
the truth: I was thinking about 
you, and when I think about you, 
when I started thinking about you 
I couldn't stop masterbating.
so I fell asleep. afterward.

73

There
are no words to 
describe
the agony of
eating too much
food at the buffet
when you go to
the buffet 
and eat all 
that you can eat.

There was a place that i came across today while 
I was out DoorDashing, and it was a place called 
ONO or something. Ono Sushi. I just looked it up. 
I think that I might want to eat there.

74

I did food delivery work today. I delivered 1 meal. 
It didn't take long to get the first order, but after 
that order, the zone I was working in dried up, so I 
switched zones, once I got there, there weren't really 
any orders to pick up, so I figured there wasn't really 
much work that day, so I went home. I've very rarely been 
able to make delivering food profitable.

75

There
are no words to 
describe
the agony of
eating too much
food at the buffet
when you go to
the buffet 
and eat all 
that you can eat.

There was a place that 
i came across today while 
I was out DoorDashing, and 
it was a place called ONO or 
something. Ono Sushi. I just 
looked it up. I think that 
I might want to eat there.

76

I did food delivery work today. 
I delivered 1 meal. It didn't take 
long to get the first order, but after 
that order, the zone I was working in 
dried up, so I switched zones, once I got 
there, there weren't really any orders to 
pick up, so I figured there wasn't really 
much work that day, so I went home. I've very 
rarely been able to make delivering food profitable.

77

I deleted my facebook, instagram, twitter (X), and 
linkedin accounts. I also think that deleted a 
number of other social media accounts as well, 
Pinterest. I'm not sure I really used that account.

One of the things that sometimes worried me about using. 
one of the things that often worried me about deleting 
these accounts is that. Maybe. someone might create a 
fake account using my name and all that. I don't know. 
I won't worry about that right now. I'm honestly. really. 
I'm surprised how many other Ken Yamat, and kenneth Yamat 
profiles are out there. I guess my name isn't all that 
special after all.

78

Door Dashing really can be a challenge. 
and. it's not always just a simple game of 
picking up and dropping off food.

i. honestly. really wish it was that easy.

79

Um. So I did Door Dash today, I had one order. 
for like 3 hours of driving, and I'm somewhat 
discouraged. After spending all that money to obtain 
business licenses, and getting a commercial auto policy 
that's way more expensive than what I was paying for a 
personal policy. I'm, you know. Not sure what to do.

The order that I did get was somewhat accidental, I was 
toggling between per order and per hours just to check 
it out, and the order I got was a per hour order.

and I'm thinking, it might make sense to switch between 
the two during certain times of the day. The traffic was 
really bad in whatever area I was in.

Anyway. I called it a day after trying for 3 hours, and only 
getting one order. Some days are better than others, and I think. 
on days where it seems like slim pickings, it might make sense 
to just go back home and work on something else.

80

Today. and I'm referring to the 18th, I often stay up 
overnight. Today wasn't a very fruitful day in terms of 
Door Dashing. The weekend wasn't as much of a money maker 
as I thought it would have been.

My conclusion is that it might be better to start later on 
in the day. Maybe around 8:00 PM or something. I've been 
pushing my start times back further and further. I 
thought 4:00 PM was already somewhat late.

If I'm going to work nights, then I need to buy a jacket.

81

Today. and I'm referring to the 18th, 
I often stay up overnight. Today wasn't 
a very fruitful day in terms of Door 
Dashing. The weekend wasn't as much of a 
money maker as I thought it would have been.

My conclusion is that it might be better to 
start later on in the day. Maybe around 8:00 
PM or something. I've been pushing my start 
times back further and further. I thought 4:00 
PM was already somewhat late.

If I'm going to work nights, then I need to 
buy a jacket.

82

DoorDashing. yeah. I'm really not looking 
for an employer right now. being self-employed 
is a challenge, but. I'm just really not looking 
for an employer right now.

83

I managed to buy a jacket today.

84

Money hasn't been this tight in a while, but there is 
one positive thing. I think that I'm able to stop pulling 
money out of my savings, and eventually, to start paying 
down my credit balances.

85

Life is extremely challenging right now.

86

I went on a road trip. not a very exciting one, but, 
I don't know. I'm in a slightly better mood than before. 
I went from Las Vegas, to San Diego, to Yuma, and back to Vegas.

87

Really not looking for an employer right now. I'm really not.

I went on a road trip. not a very exciting one, but, I don't 
know. I'm in a slightly better mood than before. I went from 
Las Vegas, to San Diego, to Yuma, and back to Vegas.

88

My focus right now is to work on my 
catalog of intellectual property.
my focus is not to find an employer.

89

If I were still filing a continued unemployment claim 
I probably would be looking for an employer, but since I'm 
not filing a claim, I'm not looking!

90

I went on a road trip. not a very exciting one, 
but, I don't know. I'm in a slightly better mood 
than before. I went from Las Vegas, to San Diego, 
to Yuma, and back to Vegas.

91

as far as MIS 768 goes. I'm just not really sure 
what to do right now. and what I mean is:
I know that I'm failing the course. I know that I 
will have to audit the course. what I'm trying 
to figure out is how to salvage this situation? 
how do I, you know, still get something for the 
money I paid to take the course?

92

A few days ago I took a road trip from 
Las Vegas, to San Diego, to Yuma, and back 
to Las Vegas. San Diego reminds me of Austin, 
just older and larger.

93

There is a convention from MIS 768 that I like, and it's this:

/*		
Author's Name: 		    	Kenneth Larot Yamat

Purpose of Program:			To calculate the shipping 
                            cost of a parcel at a 
                            parcel service store
                        
Date Due:					March 3rd, 2024
*/

94

I don't know how I would use that in this document.
this is going to be registered as a Poem, like an Epic Poem 
of ancient antiquity!

95

Life is something of a 
nightmare right now.

I thought the bleeding would 
stop, that I'd get my 
budget in order during December, 
but that is something that did not happen.

I don't even want to make any remarks 
about what I anticipate for January, 
out of a fear that I might jinx it.

96

// /**/System.out.println(" Data for Package # 1"); // entryNumber// this number
// needs to increment depending on the number of packages. // this number needs
// to iterate depending on the number of packages.

// this line is being moved down System.out.println("Please enter the"+ red + "
// weight "+reset+"of your parcel:"); // " and the "+ red +"dimensions "+reset+
// System.out.println(" "); // I don't know what's going on here, the line won't
// skip. I know what it is, it's on the wrong line.
// keyboard.nextLine();

// System.out.println("Please enter the"+ red + " weight "+reset+"of your
// parcel:");
// double packageWeight = keyboard.nextDouble(); // this needs to be a double.
// // String packageWeight = keyboard.nextLine(); // this needs to be a double.
// // String packageWeight = keyboard.nextLine();
// keyboard.nextLine();

// Package package = new Package(packageWeight, packageLength, packageWidth,
// packageHeight);

97

School starts soon. Later on 
in the month. There are a few 
things I need to get done to prepare, 
but I've been so busy doing DoorDash 
that I haven't exactly come around to 
it, but I have to get it done today.

98

School starts soon. Later on in the month. 
There are a few things I need to get 
done to prepare, but I've been so busy doing 
DoorDash that 
I haven't exactly come around to it, but I 
have to get it done today.

99

I'm in a really lousy mood right now. 
I'm kind of stressed out. I'm kind of 
frustrated about things right now.

I managed to finish quite a bit of the 
required tasks for school. Mostly 
orientation related tasks and online 
modules.

I need to go out Door Dashing and all that, 
but I'm really tired right now, but it's 
kind of a mood related fatigue.

100

When something is published. When something 
is pushed to GitHub. I really do considered 
published. because. it's avaiable to the 
public. it's just that not many people 
are on, you know digging around in repositories
reading text files and all that.

but I do consider this published.

101

I'm in a really lousy mood right now. 
I'm kind of stressed out. I'm kind of 
frustrated about things right now.

I managed to finish quite a bit of the required 
tasks for school. Mostly orientation related tasks 
and online modules.

I need to go out Door Dashing and 
all that, but I'm really 
tired right now, but it's kind of a mood related fatigue.

102

Back in November I bought a vape pen a refillable one 
after trying the disposable vape pens for a while and this 
thing will not stop leaking I don't know what to do I'm 
thinking about getting a different type of vape pen I'm 
not sure I really like the disposable vape pens but it's 
primarily based on cost because the disposables are 
just so expensive

School has started and yesterday was our first day of orientation 
this semester I'm taking two classes both of them are MIS classes

I'm enrolled in the entrepreneurship program I'm not sure 
what kind of business I would start if I were to start one 
the other day I was trying to buy clothes and I just have 
so many problems with getting the correct fit and if I were 
to start something it would be like some kind of clothes 
business I thought about buying a sewing machine because 
like my pants are just too damn long but I don't know if 
I really want to start sewing stuff because it's such a 
headache I have all these pants that just don't fit and 
it never really mattered because I always wore boots so 
like if if my pants were too long it wasn't really a 
problem and I really didn't notice.

I'm using text to speech to write this. I don't really 
get much time to sit down and type so finding this feature 
on my phone has turned out to be really useful. nothing is 
punctuated and I guess that's just the way text to speech 
works, but I could always go back and punctuate this if I need to.

There are a few things that I realized while I was door 
dashing that made me start to use text to speech one of 
the things was that I can't really type if I'm driving 
but if I use the phone if somebody wants to access what 
I have to say they have to access their voicemail box 
like if I leave a message and so it just made more sense 
to use text to speech and send it by text the way they 
could just read whatever I said it's not like I'm really 
saying anything to complex when I'm using text to speech 
for the most part anyway

A while ago I think I wrote about how I wanted to buy 
a jacket and what ended up happening is that I ended 
up buying two sweaters two jackets and four pairs of 
pants after buying the sweaters I realized that I don't 
really like sweaters and part of the reason for that is 
that with jackets I have a jacket pocket and I don't really 
like having so many things in my pants pockets so I bought 
these sweaters and I'm not really planning on using them

I really like the sweaters but from a usefulness 
standpoint I just don't anticipate 
ever really wearing them

103

classes start on the 16th. the two orientation 
classes are over. I wore a tie for the second day, 
but, it was mostly for getting a portrait photograph 
taken, but, I seem to have missed it. I guess I thought 
that there would be a kind of designated time to get our 
portrait photos taken, but, it was more of whenever you 
have the opportunity to get one kind of deal. and. yeah, i missed it.

104

classes start on the 16th. the two orientation classes are over. 
I wore a tie for the second day, but, it was mostly for getting a portrait 
photograph taken, but, I seem to have missed it. I guess I thought that there 
would be a kind of designated time to get our portrait photos taken, but, it 
was more of whenever you have the opportunity to get one kind of deal. and. 
yeah, i missed it.

105

I bought a new toilet seat. The wood ones were 
less expensive than the plastic ones, which was nice, 
so, I bought a wood one.

106

I'm trying to think.

107

I bought a parking pass. I think that I only 
have class once a week, and it's after parking 
enforcement hours. so maybe I didn't really need to 
pay for a parking permit, but then again, I might be on 
campus to do this or that, and, I'm going to apply for 
positions on campus, so I might use it.

I need to get a new phone, my current phone is cracked, 
and, it's also kind of falling apart.

108

I bought a parking pass. I think that 
I only have class once a week, and it's 
after parking enforcement hours. so maybe 
I didn't really need to pay for a parking 
permit, but then again, I might be on campus 
to do this or that, and, I'm going to 
apply for positions on campus, so I might use it.

I need to get a new phone, my current phone 
is cracked, and, it's also kind of falling apart.

109

I finally bought a new phone. My last one 
cracked not too long after I bought it. It 
was weird because I hadn't cracked a phone 
that soon after buying it in a while. I think 
I had it for 7 months. My last phone was really 
falling apart, it wasn't just cracked.

110

I'm really frustrated right 
now. I really feel like 
going on a short road trip 
to blow off some steam, but 
I kind of scheduled an appointment 
for Monday, but there was no 
confirmation on the other side, so.

and

today is 
already monday.

so. a road trip is 
kind of out of the 
question right now.

and

i have to be prudent 
about how i waste my time.

maybe i could go out and

eat something ridiculous, but
i don't know of anything ridiculous
that's open at 3 AM.

the only kind of food that's available
at 3 AM is basically totally normal
kinds of food.

Let's see:

Hitchin' Post Saloon

I've actually been wanting to eat 
here for a while, but, I think this 
is some kind of steakhouse or something, 
and that's pretty much normal food.

Bourbon Street Sports Bar

I've eaten here before, and I think I spent like 30 bucks. 
I don't mind spending 30 bucks on a meal, but the meal 
has to be worth 30 bucks, and whatever I ate here really 
wasn't worth 30 bucks.

Northstar Bar and Grill

this place is close, but I think it's just 
normal food.

there are a number of taco stands and taco trucks, 
the last time I went to a taco stand I spent 47 
dollars. i think I ate 18 tacos, it was some 
multiple of 6. I think it was 14 tacos actually.

I want to eat some kind of
fish.

I'm still in a really lousy mood right now.

i'm trying to think.

I want to eat indian food.

Delhi Indian & Nepali Cuisine Express

the building that's on google maps 
isn't really all that sexy.
but the address

333 W St Louis Ave, Las Vegas, NV 89102

I basically have to eat there now.
and here's why

333 is simply one of my favorite numbers.

and west saint louis just kills me because

kansas city is in the west and saint louis is on the 
eastern part of missouri. kansas city is part kansas and 
part missouri, and saint louis is part missouri and part illinois.

place isn't open right now though.

oh. I realize what this is.

it's a
Virtual restaurant

it's basically doordash only kind of orders. 
like it basically only exists to fulfill doordash orders.

I'm still trying to think.

at this point i'm not even hungry anymore.

i'm in slightly less of a bad mood.

111

good god.

i need to get something to eat

i'm not hungry really

i'm just not really in much of a good mood.

i'm in a really garbage kind of mood.

i'm not even hungry.
and
eating something is not really
a solution

but i can't really think of anything else 
i enjoy doing

i don't feel hungry

112

so i ended up at saffron flavors of india

113

this is one of the few times i've ever 
successfully fixed a Google Search Console 
issue. but this also comes with . this also 
came with a seperate email stating that i 
had not resolved some other - seperate 
google search console issue.

114

i have to watch what i eat when i go out. i really
feel like i ate too much.
i have to get these small assignments done.
I don't know what to do for money. I haven't interviewed for anything in a while.

[Development Commentary]

<!-- [11/04/2023 23:10] Create a link for Chestnut and Hazel Connection, Mobile Version -->

Sometimes when I go into interviews it's not clear to me if the interviewer 
is just looking to kill time, or if they are actually looking to fill the 
role. When I went into this interview with Copart, it felt like the interviewer 
only had the intention of mocking my work history, and like, she didn't start the 
interview until an hour or so after the scheduled time.

I'm still really angry that my unemployment claim was denied, 
and that I'm not getting paid out on it.

but.

if they aren't going to pay me, then I almost see no reason to look for work.
I'll keep looking as long as I have an appeal outstanding, but, in many ways it
feels like looking for work is a total waste of my time.

I'm worried about running out of money before I get into college. 
I can't seem to put together
enough letters of recommendation, and, this is a real nightmare. A real nightmare.

I can't really leave Las Vegas, and UNLV is the only college in Las Vegas 
that has a graduate school.
All the programs at UNLV require more letters of recommendation that I can 
reasonably put together,
and. I don't know.

Total War ROME 2: Battle of Pella (2023) During the Macedonian wars of 209 BC The 
Julian Dynasty takes the bold move to attack the Macedonians at the very heart of 
their empire: The Capital of Pella. Defended by their own world renowned Macedonian 
warriors, and reinforced by their Epirot and Spartan allies, the Capital of Pella 
makes for a difficult battle, over the course of three separate major assaults on 
the city, Pella is finally captured by none other than Sextus Nerva himself.

I had to get 
rid of a bunch 
of this stuff for 
some reason.

115

I don't why my life always goes 
straight to hell every now and then.

116

what a nightmare. a total nightmare. 
I don't know what else to say. things 
are not going the way that I want them 
to. headache. nightmare. life oscillates 
between being a headache, to a nightmare, 
and back.

117

I'm not sure what to work on right now. 
Today is Sunday, and everything is kind of a 
free day for a while. I should look for work. 
Apply for a few positions. I made a few game 
playing videos where I have voice overs or 
narrations what what's going on, and what 
decisions I'm making. Even with the videos 
sped up to 10x to 16x, there still seems to 
be a lack of things to say.

118

I'm not sure what to work on right now. Today is 
Sunday, and everything is kind of a free day for a 
while. I should look for work. Apply for a few 
positions. I made a few game playing videos where 
I have voice overs or narrations what what's going 
on, and what decisions I'm making. Even with the 
videos sped up to 10x to 16x, there still seems 
to be a lack of things to say.

119

so what am I up to right now? I'm really 
just making gaming videos and uploading them 
to YouTube. I tried making a YouTube short, 
but I think my video was over budget, time wise. 
I guess I'll find out. I could have sworn that 
I've seen YouTube shorts that are in the 4 minute 
range. I bought this down to 1:25 minutes, but I'm 
not sure if that's short enough to be a short.

120

I am failing MIS 768 right now. really 
hard too. I applied for the computer Science 
program, and. if i'm failing an MIS course. then.
well.

121

I've added some content below from my Spanish Translations 
project. I've recently got bogged down messing around with 
an old project that doesn't seem to work in it's new area. 
I don't know what's going on, or why it doesn't work except 
on my landing page. I did get rid of something that was 
making it kind of a headache, and the thing was the 
transform hover effect.

122

I'm going to forget about messing around with fixing the
project 11 contact form, for whatever reason, it does not
work. It's the same thing as what i have on my landing page,
so I don't know why it doesn't work. so dumb. I might try one
more thing. but then again, I really have to work on my
translations project, and this is just something I'm messing
around with.

123

I'm putting together the texts that I'll be translating for
this project. I'm also working on my YouTube videos. For video
editing, I'm mostly just consolidating and speeding up videos
and adding music, and uploading them, and I can't really do this
while playing the games themselves because my computer slows down
a lot.

Buying a new gaming laptop is something that I thought about, but
I think that I'll wait to do it. A gaming computer that can play
the games I want to play doesn't look too expensive, but I really
have to wait to spend that kind of money right now.


Two Spanish Language Authors have been replaced

César Vallejo with José de Espronceda
&
Pablo Neruda with Antonio Machado

I created a few additional JavaScript functions to allow
the contact forms to be visible inside the iframe and clickable
inside the list.

124

I think that everything has been set up, once everything is
deployed, then I can focus on making translations for the
pages that I've set up.

125

So I set up the .md files for the four authors that I'm going
to translate from English to Spanish, and the four authors
that I'm going to translate from Spanish to English. I selected
all authors whose work I expect to be in the Public Domain.

126

VS Code is such a great too. even 
for editing non-computer code 
documents.

127

Getting the Readme iframe and Document Title swap to work is complete,
the next stage in this project is to pick 4 authors to translate.

I'll pick four authors to translate from English to Spanish,
and 4 authors to translate from Spanish to English.

For English to Spanish:

William Carlos Williams
T. S. Eliot
Wallace Stevens
E. E. Cummings

For Spanish to English:

Rubén Darío
César Vallejo
Pablo Neruda
Miguel de Unamuno

128

This is awesome! it actually works, the title and the document
change when clicked! I'm going to come back around to this and
continue to work on it later.

129

There are a few other things that I need to work on, 
I need to set up katastrophiena to be eligible for 
AdSense, and, I think that the main thing is that 
I need a longer history of posts for this blog. This 
might take a while, and take away from all the other 
things that I'm working on. Anyway. I'm getting sucked 
into computer gaming right now, not with any games that 
are new, but games that I've had for a long time. I've 
been thinking about buying a gaming laptop, something 
inexpensive, and I came across one, but, I really 
have to hold out on buying anything like that right now.

I have to wait before spending money on something 
like a new laptop, at least until next year.

130

I'm working on a number of things right now. 
One is setting up a page on GitHub Pages for 
my Spanish Translations Project. I was having 
trouble with a contact forms section of my page, 
this isn't needed for my Translations Page, I just 
set it up so it works, or, I'm just been trying to 
make the links work. Basically, I took Project 16, 
my Project 16 page, and used it as a starting point 
for my Spanish Translations Project. One of the things 
I left from the old page and kept on the new page was 
a section for Contact Forms that I made throughout the 
course I took. There is one Contact Form that just doesn't 
really work. It's the one from Project 11 I don't know 
what wrong.

and I'm really not in the mood to work on it because. 
I just really don't really want to work on it right 
now. So I guess I wont.

131

There is one thing that I have found that helps 
with the video uploading process, for longer videos, 
it makes sense to speed up the video all the way up to 
16x speed, and the reason why is that, videos longer 
than an hour, and even longer than 10 minutes, are 
really slow paced, and it's much easier to get an 
idea of what's happening when the video is moving 
faster. This also reduces the file size, and makes 
uploading quicker.

There are some games that are really slow paced, 
like the tower game that I'm playing, but also, 
the same is true for many other city building games as well.

132

I need to come up with a better workflow for uploading 
gaming videos to YouTube. They take a hell of a long 
time to upload, especially larger files, I would reduce 
the file size, but it's not really clear to me how to do 
that. There is an issue with gaming videos, they often 
need to be high resolution, a lot of these videos need to 
be high resolution, I don't even have a very large screen 
on my laptop, and in many cases, the videos seem to be 
blurry. On the other hand, I'm not sure if these are 
going to be viewed mainly on a large screen, or a small 
screen, like a phone.

133

I'm thinking about how everything seems to have been falling 
apart for me over these past few months. I lost my job, I 
haven't found a new one, and I'm burning through my money. 
I'm a little bit demotivated. or unmotivated. or just basically 
lacking very much or even any motivation. I'm cutting it close 
it terms of money. I need to find work. Land a job or something.
 
The Internet connection here is slow, it's not normally this 
slow, but for whatever reason, it's slower than syrup. I'm 
working on a number of things right now, but I'm also kind 
of bouncing around mentally from idea to idea, from worry to 
worry.

Somewhere in the back of my mind I'm wondering if I'm cursed 
or something. Like, there's nothing I can do, and this is just 
the way things are going to go for me, but I have no idea why 
I would be cursed, or what would be the cause of the curse, or 
why I would be cursed, or who would want to place a curse on me.

134

I've added some content below from my Spanish Translations project. 
I've recently got bogged down messing around with an old project that 
doesn't seem to work in it's new area. I don't know what's going on, 
or why it doesn't work except on my landing page. I did get rid of 
something that was making it kind of a headache, and the thing was the 
transform hover effect.

I'm going to forget about messing around with fixing the
project 11 contact form, for whatever reason, it does not
work. It's the same thing as what i have on my landing page,
so I don't know why it doesn't work. so dumb. I might try one
more thing. but then again, I really have to work on my
translations project, and this is just something I'm messing
around with.

I'm putting together the texts that I'll be translating for
this project. I'm also working on my YouTube videos. For video
editing, I'm mostly just consolidating and speeding up videos
and adding music, and uploading them, and I can't really do this
while playing the games themselves because my computer slows down
a lot.

Buying a new gaming laptop is something that I thought about, but
I think that I'll wait to do it. A gaming computer that can play
the games I want to play doesn't look too expensive, but I really
have to wait to spend that kind of money right now.


Two Spanish Language Authors have been replaced

César Vallejo with José de Espronceda
&
Pablo Neruda with Antonio Machado

I created a few additional JavaScript functions to allow
the contact forms to be visible inside the iframe and clickable
inside the list.

135

I think that I accidentally
posted. copied and pasted 
the same post twice.

136

I think that everything has been set up, once everything is
deployed, then I can focus on making translations for the
pages that I've set up.

137

I haven't even looked at the Spanish Translation 
project in a while. After not passing the Spanish Entrance 
exam I more or less figured I would put it on the back burner. 

138

So I set up the .md files for the four authors that I'm going
to translate from English to Spanish, and the four authors
that I'm going to translate from Spanish to English. I selected
all authors whose work I expect to be in the Public Domain.

139

Getting the Readme iframe and Document Title swap to work is complete,
the next stage in this project is to pick 4 authors to translate.

I'll pick four authors to translate from English to Spanish,
and 4 authors to translate from Spanish to English.

For English to Spanish:

William Carlos Williams
T. S. Eliot
Wallace Stevens
E. E. Cummings

For Spanish to English:

Rubén Darío
César Vallejo
Pablo Neruda
Miguel de Unamuno

140

This is awesome! it actually works, the title and the document
change when clicked! I'm going to come back around to this and
continue to work on it later.

141

There are a few other things that I need to work on, I 
need to set up katastrophiena to be eligible for AdSense, 
and, I think that the main thing is that I need a longer 
history of posts for this blog. This might take a while, 
and take away from all the other things that I'm working on. 
Anyway. I'm getting sucked into computer gaming right now, 
not with any games that are new, but games that I've had for 
a long time. I've been thinking about buying a gaming laptop, 
something inexpensive, and I came across one, but, I really 
have to hold out on buying anything like that right now.

I have to wait before spending money on something like a new 
laptop, at least until next year.

142

I'm working on a number of things right now. One is setting up 
a page on GitHub Pages for my Spanish Translations Project. I 
was having trouble with a contact forms section of my page, 
this isn't needed for my Translations Page, I just set it up 
so it works, or, I'm just been trying to make the links work. 
Basically, I took Project 16, my Project 16 page, and used it 
as a starting point for my Spanish Translations Project. One 
of the things I left from the old page and kept on the new page 
was a section for Contact Forms that I made throughout the course 
I took. There is one Contact Form that just doesn't really work. 
It's the one from Project 11 I don't know what wrong.

and I'm really not in the mood to work on it because. I just really 
don't really want to work on it right now. So I guess I wont.

143

There is one thing that I have found that helps with the video uploading 
process, for longer videos, it makes sense to speed up the video all the 
way up to 16x speed, and the reason why is that, videos longer than an 
hour, and even longer than 10 minutes, are really slow paced, and it's 
much easier to get an idea of what's happening when the video is moving 
faster. This also reduces the file size, and makes uploading quicker.

There are some games that are really slow paced, like the tower game 
that I'm playing, but also, the same is true for many other city 
building games as well.

144

I need to come up with a better workflow for uploading gaming videos 
to YouTube. They take a hell of a long time to upload, especially 
larger files, I would reduce the file size, but it's not really clear 
to me how to do that. There is an issue with gaming videos, they often 
need to be high resolution, a lot of these videos need to be high 
resolution, I don't even have a very large screen on my laptop, 
and in many cases, the videos seem to be blurry. On the other hand, 
I'm not sure if these are going to be viewed mainly on a large 
screen, or a small screen, like a phone.

145

I'm thinking about how everything seems to have been falling apart 
for me over these past few months. I lost my job, I haven't found 
a new one, and I'm burning through my money. I'm a little bit 
demotivated. or unmotivated. or just basically lacking very much 
or even any motivation. I'm cutting it close it terms of money. 
I need to find work. Land a job or something.
 
The Internet connection here is slow, it's not normally this slow, 
but for whatever reason, it's slower than syrup. I'm working on a 
number of things right now, but I'm also kind of bouncing around 
mentally from idea to idea, from worry to worry.

Somewhere in the back of my mind I'm wondering if I'm cursed or something. 
Like, there's nothing I can do, and this is just the way things are going 
to go for me, but I have no idea why I would be cursed, or what would be the 
cause of the curse, or why I would be cursed, or who would want to place a 
curse on me.

146

I'm more or less going to be continuing 
this blog from GitHub going forward, but you 
can still see updates here from the iframe below.

147

I'm more or less going to be continuing this blog 
from GitHub going forward, but you can still see 
updates here from the iframe below.

149

I'm more or less going to be continuing this blog 
from GitHub going forward, but you can still see 
updates here from the iframe below.

149

I think that I had multiple posts
where the chestnutandhazel.com posts 
were just iframes of documents that I 
published first on GitHub.

150

I'm more or less going to be continuing this 
blog from GitHub going forward, but you can 
still see updates here from the iframe below.

151

and another one.

152

Adventure # 3 - 10/11/2023 21:16 - Originally Posted In CSS\style.css

This is probably going to be the least user friendly blog ever. Tell me: are you reading this? Is it nice and user friendly?
because I'm not sure I really care, you're basically reading my diary. Whether or not it's user friendly isn't really my problem.
One of the issues I have with what I post on chestnutandhazel.com is that It's hosted, or whatever, it's really just an account
on blogger.com, so since it's basically a social media account, I have to comply with the community guidles of blogger.com, and
since I have adsense active on that page, I also have to comply with any adsense advertiser standards, so I have my hands tied 
in many respects. chestnutandhazel.com continues to get flagged over and over and over, and in many cases I don't really want to 
deal with it right away.

the other issue is that I also have to post what I write somewhere, so that I can use the standard copyright registration form,
rather than the unpublished copyright registration form, so, that's another issue. so you know, it's kind of whatever.

/* 

i basically couldn't figure out how to do this in javascript, but since this is a styling concern, I don't feel the least bit bad
about styling it with Cascading Style Sheets:  HAHAHAHA!

https://www.w3schools.com/tags/tag_small.asp
https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_font_size.asp  
https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_font_size.asp

Currently Watching: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uyzZW6fpzik

*/

153

I'm feeling incredibly scatter brained. I have a project 
due for my software and web development course today, and 
I haven't even started. This should be simple, so I'm not 
too worried about it, but, at the same time, I know from 
the past that these things could take quite a while if I 
hit a brick wall.

There are other issues that I'm facing, especially on the 
income front. The temp assignment was not a particularly 
good fit, and, I really get the feeling that I should avoid 
any kind of warehouse or factory work, even though, that's 
sort of what I've been doing for the past five years, but I 
don't have the slightest clue what to look for.

Life is such an unbelievable struggle. I don't really know 
what to do about money. Somewhere in the back of my mind 
there's this voice telling me that I should stop looking 
for a job or employment or whatever, and, that I should 
focus on trying to make money doing stock market shit.

154

https://www.chestnutandhazel.com/2019/06/reflection-714-by-chestnut-and-hazel.html


Reflection # 714 by Chestnut and Hazel

I don't know exactly what I've been spending on buying lunch and soda at work, 
but I know that it is too damn much, I want to say it is around 15 dollars per day. 
Too fucking much. I have to cut down on that for sure.

By Chestnut + Hazel at June 11, 2019 

Notes written on 10/10/2023 @ 10:19 AM, 
originally posted on GitHub

I think that I wrote this post while I was working 
at Case New Holland. I'm surprised that I was 
really spending that much. I 
Wonder what I was buying? I don't really remember. 
I think that it was mostly energy drinks. I don't 
remember my exact hours. 
It was overnight is as much as I remember. In 
Cameron, MO there isn't really much to eat if 
you're up at odd hours.

I'm working on Project 11 for my Web and Software 
Development course. I'm not really getting much 
done. I'm getting sidetracked
with other things. I'm really amazed that I get so 
little done, especially considering that I've had 
few other obligations other
than class these past few months. I really 
wonder what I've been doing.

Earlier in the course I would have a 
lot of fun playing around with our 
daily assignments, but, I haven't really 
done that in a
while, even though there have been plenty 
of opportunities to do so.

155

I don't really remember what those
old posts are about.

156

not off the top of my head anyway.

157

Life is such a nightmare right now. My expenses have increased, 
and my income has decreased, and I'm really not seeing any 
kind of light at the end of the tunnel.

Life is such a nightmare, but I'm not sure it's really ever been easy.

158

I'm trying to think. Today is Sunday. I feel like I wasted the 
entire day. In fact, it's actually already Monday.

159

I kind of blew off one of my professional development projects, the 
last one, but I didn't realize that it was required for passing the 
course, so I requested a redo of that project.

160

I feel like there is something that I need to do 
right now, but I'm not sure what that is.

161

I'm failing MIS 768
I'm going to audit MIS 768
I don't know if the instructor would 
allow me to re-take the course, but 
even if she did, I don't know if I can 
take a risk like that again. 

162

I feel like there is something 
that I need to do right now, 
but I'm not sure what that is.

163

I was thinking about the 
aphorism: "the hardest part is getting started"

i thought that it was actually 
a quote from Robert Coover's short 
story "In be one night and other brief encounters"

but um it's something people actually 
say, you know, people say that the hardest 
part is getting started.

anyway

the more i thought about it
the more
i thought that

you know
that it could mean two things

on the one hand. it could mean that
the most difficult part in any process is 
getting the process started

and also
that 

the most difficult part of the process is about to get started.

i'm working on project 9 for my class. i'm almost done.
the hardest part. was actually realizing the fact that I 
have to reference my javascript file in the body of my html 
file, and not the head. it was working fine, but, um. the 

i'm taking a break.

164

I should be starting a new position 
soon. Thank god. I've been bored out 
of my mind, and kind of losing focus. 
it's been about a month and three weeks.

165

I'm so tired. My sleep cycle has shifted over the 
past few weeks. I'm still worried about not landing 
a position yet. I'm depleting my savings, and for me, 
that's not really ideal.

166

I still haven't landed a position yet, and I'm under a 
little bit of stress as a result. I can't believe I 
didn't get approved for unemployment.

167

best of all the places you've been
are better than the places you haven't been.
and you won't go anywhere new for the foreseeable future.

now and then you will
find something interesting.
and most of all they are more interesting
than the things that you haven't come across.

and you will drive across the country and find new things
that are interesting
and that you will be happy to see and 
you will enjoy them.

I know what to do now, like going 
forward and stuff. I'm going to say this:


"Yeah, I know a whole bunch of stuff, 
all the craziest dirt and everything. 
Basically. I have all the information 
you need, even the things that other 
people don't know, and even the things 
that other people couldn't even imagine."

maybe you know the things that you haven't
already learned so you will learn them.

here
and again
you see it over and
over and think that
the new things are
nonsensical, but they
actually make sense.

168

what is one of the things that makes Door Dashing hard?
customers who say they never got their order. 
one thing that almost all of the refund fraudsters that I've 
had to deal with is that during the drop off, they make 
a variation to the original instructions. if they say they 
want it to be a contactless delivery, you'll see them standing 
right at the door or at the street waiting for there order, or 
if they say hand it to me, they ask you to leave it at there door.

169

I don't really have much to write about. 
I'm writing because. I guess. I want to keep this 
updated, but I really don't have anything to write 
about. I had a few interview over the past few weeks, 
but, nothing has really materialized.

170


Where are the times
that the people who
where here
are not here anymore

when they left to the other side of the
universe.

171

I removed Steam from my taskbar. Nightmare. I can't get 
anything done when I get so distracted by other useless 
stuff. This is silly, but I have to stay off there. 
There are other things that I could be doing, and should be doing.

The current module in class is WordPress. I had trouble, or, 
maybe just hesitation at first, but it's actually a whole lot 
easier than I initially thought, so I'm not as overwhelmed as 
I was at first. It's not always clear what I'm doing is basically 
my issue with WordPress, but, I almost want to say it's the same 
way when I make pages using HTML and CSS to make them, it's just 
that I've gotten more familiar creating pages by writing them, 
and grabbing and dragging is somewhat new.

172

What do I have to do? I don't have any major assignments 
due tomorrow, but I have to get these modules on WordPress 
done because we are going to move into new content.

173

For some reason I can't seem to really get my thoughts together 
to get very much of my course work done. I did get the last two 
projects completed, but only after quite a bit of procrastination, 
followed by quite a bit of pressure from an impending due date. I'm 
not really behind, but I'm not really ahead, and I'm not really 
getting ahead.

The pressure to land a position is increasing. It isn't clear to me 
where I stand with the temp agency, I did get new hire paperwork, but, 
I'm not sure if that necessarily means I have a position, or a paid 
assignment just yet. I've only worked with a temp agency a few other 
times. Each one is kind of different.

174

Where are the times
that the people who
where here
are not here anymore

when they left to the other side of the
universe.

175

I removed Steam from my taskbar. Nightmare. 
I can't get anything done when I get so distracted 
by other useless stuff. This is silly, but I have 
to stay off there. There are other things that I 
could be doing, and should be doing.

The current module in class is WordPress. I had 
trouble, or, maybe just hesitation at first, but 
it's actually a whole lot easier than I initially 
thought, so I'm not as overwhelmed as I was at first. 
It's not always clear what I'm doing is basically my 
issue with WordPress, but, I almost want to say it's 
the same way when I make pages using HTML and CSS to 
make them, it's just that I've gotten more familiar 
creating pages by writing them, and grabbing and 
dragging is somewhat new.

176

What do I have to do? I don't have any major assignments 
due tomorrow, but I have to get these modules on WordPress 
done because we are going to move into new content.

177

For some reason I can't seem to really get my thoughts 
together to get very much of my course work done. I did 
get the last two projects completed, but only after quite 
a bit of procrastination, followed by quite a bit of pressure 
from an impending due date. I'm not really behind, but I'm not 
really ahead, and I'm not really getting ahead.

The pressure to land a position is increasing. It isn't clear to 
me where I stand with the temp agency, I did get new hire paperwork, 
but, I'm not sure if that necessarily means I have a position, or a 
paid assignment just yet. I've only worked with a temp agency a few 
other times. Each one is kind of different.

178

I managed to get my project finished, although, 
not without a lot of procrastination. For some 
reason I keep getting sucked-in to playing 
computer games. Huge waste of time. Today is 
after Labor Day. I had an interview with a temp 
agency and a logistics company the other day, but, 
I don't know where I stand. I'll follow up when I get a chance.

I get less and less enthusiastic about this 
blog as time goes on. Well, maybe that's not totally 
true. I guess. I just really have less time for it right now.

179

I'm getting worried about coming up on a 
second month out-of-work. I didn't get 
approved for unemployment, so, I'm basically 
just staying home for now. Not doing anything 
other than my course work and. I did a little 
day trading yesterday, but, it didn't amount to 
much. I didn't lose anything, and that's always good.

Caffeine keeps me up, 
but it doesn't give me 
motivation. I've been 
procrastinating with some 
of the stuff for class.

180

Today is labor day and I've stayed 
up overnight, and I haven't had any 
sleep, and I haven't got any work done.

181

Today is the first day in a long while 
that I've been up during the day, where 
it wasn't, where I wasn't just carrying 
on from the night before. I'm still worried 
about the next few weeks and months, since, 
I'm not working, but I'm not as stressed out 
about it as I usually am, or, as stressed out 
about it as I was a while ago. I almost had 
an interview the other day, but the recruiter 
never confirmed the interview date and time. 
I thought about just showing up, but then, 
I later thought it would be weird.

182

Today is the first day in a long while 
that I've been up during the day, where it 
wasn't, where I wasn't just carrying on from 
the night before. I'm still worried about the 
next few weeks and months, since, I'm not 
working, but I'm not as stressed out about 
it as I usually am, or, as stressed out about 
it as I was a while ago. I almost had an interview 
the other day, but the recruiter never confirmed 
the interview date and time. I thought about just 
showing up, but then, I later thought it would be weird.

183

I missed my appointment with my career counselor 
the other day, and I was so tired, that I didn't 
show up for class, even though it was just a Zoom 
session. Same thing, I was playing Sim City, and 
that was an issue, and the other thing was that I 
was staying up late trying to set up my GitHub 
website, it took forever, and the issue turned 
out nothing that I was able to fix, the issue was 
that my account was messed up, so I had to create 
a new account. I don't know what the specific cause 
of the issue was, but as far as I can tell, it had 
something to do with the email address that I used 
to sign up for an account. It's less likely to get 
flagged if you use something like a signup with a 
Gmail account. So that's what I did, the other issue 
may have been with my account name, which had hyphens. 
and it was really long as well.

184

I've been wasting a little bit of time playing 
Sim City. Well. It's actually a lot of time that 
I've wasted playing the game. I've been in an 
unhappy mood these last few days, and I'm not 
really in any position to do anything super 
interesting. My fortune cookie the other day. 
I went out for Chinese food. Said: There are no 
bad journeys, only lessons learned. I don't know 
if that was supposed to encourage me or what.

185

I'm feeling a little better than I was earlier. 
I've applied for a few more roles. a few more positions. 
I'm worried about things. about the next few months. I'm 
annoyed by how often. like. my plans to get ahead always 
seem to hit a brick wall. things just aren't really easy 
for me. this is such a headache. such a disappointment. 
I'm feeling somewhat discouraged.
 
186

My head is in a million different places 
right now. I'm in such an absolute funk right now.

187

I have my hearing today. yet another nightmare. 
I'm frustrated right now. Irritated.

188

I'm so tired. I don't think that I really 
did anything today. after the first application, 
I went on to complete 2 more, and an assessment. 
I went to the buffet around the corner. I don't 
know. I feel like I do the same stuff over and 
over. but oh well. I guess that's the way it is for now.

I don't know why I didn't but more sodas when 
I was at the gas station earlier. Right now 
I'm more thirsty than I've ever been. So thirsty.

Guess what? I drank water! it was so good.

I'm in a weird mood.

Everything is kind of a 
nightmare right now. like 
a real nightmare. I wish 
things we easy. or at least. easier.

One thing I made easier for myself 
is to keep my keyboard backlight on. 
this is nice. since I'm always up at 
night. during the day, though, I'm always 
working kind of in the dark.

What do I still want? Like. Is there anything 
I still want that I've wanted for a while.

189

I submitted 1 application 
today. i think one of the 
things that kind of makes me nervous 
is when there are a number of programs 
or applications listed in the post that 
I'm not familiar with. A lot of these 
positions, or, at least the positions 
that stick out to me, have to do with 
casino games, or slot machines.

190

I need to look for work, and I need to 
find something, I need to land something. 
I feel a little bit worried. well. I actually 
feel a little more than just a little worried. 
I haven't looked for work or applied for a job in  
a while.

191

I need to land a job, and I'm 
starting to worry about it. I 
need something that pays. like 
real money.

192

Some things are just too weird. 
some coincidences are just too 
coincidental. sometimes things 
line up in strange ways that seem. 
weird. like i wonder how that happened.

193

Version 4 - 7 of my project is 
responsive. It fits mobile screens.

194

I was able to find something to eat.

195

It's midnight and I'm really 
kind of hungry. I want to go 
out to eat, I want to find 
something to eat.

196

I don't really have much to write 
about. I've just been working on 
my coursework and assignments and 
projects for my class. I've been 
basically goofing off with this 
Jennifer Connelly project. All day, 
and a few hours from the previous day. 
I think that I worked overnight on this.

197

I don't know what to do about my MIS 768 
Repository. I'm thinking about dismatleing it 
and relocating the material to my main repository.

198

I need to land a job, 
and I'm starting to 
worry about it. I need 
something that pays. 
like real money.

199

Some things are just too weird. 
some coincidences are just too 
coincidental. sometimes things 
line up in strange ways that 
seem. weird. like i wonder how 
that happened.

200

Version 4 - 7 of my project is 
responsive. It fits mobile screens.

201

I was able to find something to eat.

202

It's midnight and I'm really kind of 
hungry. I want to go out to eat, I 
want to find something to eat.

203

I don't really have much to write about. 
I've just been working on my coursework 
and assignments and projects for my class. 
I've been basically goofing off with this 
Jennifer Connelly project. All day, and a 
few hours from the previous day. I think 
that I worked overnight on this.

204

I created an aspect ratio of 8.68 / 6.08

205

I'm not really in a good mood. I'm tired. 
I'm cranky. I'm worried about the future 
and all that. This is a headache.

206

I'm super tired. I didn't really do 
anything today. I attended class, 
which is via Zoom, so, it's not like 
that's really physically demanding, 
but, I'm otherwise really tired.

207

I don't. a little bit of hard stuff. 
trouble. this is difficult. nightmare.

208

I woke up at around 2 PM this afternoon. 
I was really tired, so I went to the buffet 
to go out and eat. I bought and drank a 
few energy drinks, but I'm not any more 
energized or awake than I was 2 hours ago, 
it's 4 PM as I am writing this. I'm thinking 
about taking kind of a long shower or 
something. doing my homework.

209

I'm trying to think right now. 
I'm in a strange mood right now. 
I'm irritated about a few things.

210

I'm a little bit hungry right 
now, and I want to eat something. 
kind of. I want to eat something 
from the gas station. 

211

I feel like going out and doing 
something. Like real. I feel 
like going out on a road trip 
or something.

212

I don't know what kind of a day this is. 
Lazy. I'm feeling lazy. and that's pretty 
much it. I'm going to apply for a few more 
roles. but I don't know what to look for.

This most recent assignment was really cool. I had fun.

213

these are really
the most boring things 
that I can think of 
right now.

📮      
        5892 Losee RD STE 132 PMB 176, 
        North Las Vegas, NV 89081-6200 
     
📧  
        info@chestnutandhazel.com 
☎   
        +1-816-724-5293

and everything else is somewhere 
else and when 
you get there you are more 
bored than you have ever been.

214

I'm trying to get my energy 
together to get myself to work 
on something, but, I'm just not 
there yet. I'm tired. I usually 
work from maybe 10 PM to early in 
the morning, last night I stopped 
after being kind of discouraged, 
and then, sort of 
figured out the issue.

215

I'm incredibly tired. I just came back 
from the museum, and I went out and did 
a bunch of other stuff as well, but 
nothing major, I just went out to eat. 
and that's it.

216

Today is my birthday. I booked a visit to 
the natural history museum. I actually wanted 
to go yesterday,  but for whatever reason it 
wasn't available. I wanted to go Sunday, but 
Sunday wasn't an option. maybe it's not open 
on Sunday? who knows. I really don't want to 
go anymore. I'm not really feeling okay. I'm 
experiencing quite a bit of anxiety about the 
future. I don't even want to go to the museum today.

217

I'm already tired compiling this massive poem.
larbleeegomartia Karlleshalrma yormalloria
kenneth
larot
yamat
int
repurposed
squiggly
chris
kathryn
args
txt
sharlilponi
src
eclipsedictionaryfile
dictionaryfile
str
blordanicalimor
hr
min
kly
edu
mis
labwork
elixir
unlv
col
catherine
autoboxes
unboxed
kb
stan
ti
roulette
rand
redo
num
bal
ft
feb
pts
commercialized
jeeze
asadasddsa
csv
ouput
hu
ex
subtotal
doesnt
qwertyuioopppppp
asdfghjkkl
qwertyuiopasdfghjkl
zxcvbnm
overthink
arraylist
volumetric
nectar
magenta
cyan
screwy
billable
detour
london
hahahaha
eurodollars
gustave
flaubert
illiquid
laborious
bollinger
xml
isomers
multidisciplinary
devalue
blog
tweets
exploitative
interoperability
healthcare
informatics
imagery
loopthink
programme
internalisation
monomers
walton
ecosystem
patnaik
norfolk
boeing
microtribes
forbes
init
nsc
htm
vicky
kelly
uber
commoditized
investopedia
midsize
Typology
Amazon Alexa
Alexa
alexa
incumbents
incumbents
encroachment
rideshare
overused
ransbotham
kiron
gerbert
midsize
investopedia
regulatory
al
et
duan
sloan
spira
affordances
blockchain
dispersant
pretrained
gaussian
gpt
website
websites
jablonka
schwaller
smit
fraudulent
siri
susan
alice
bennett
neurosciences
mamonov
peterson
vanguard

218

the previous stanza 
is a kind of 
dictionary.

219

Sharlika
sharliponi
Tarantula
Doogie
Elephant
Toucan
Pig
Appendia
Appendio
appendiala
apendila dicshonario
appendia theosauriseena
appendia referencia
appendio blormeesa
appendeema bloggienemo
apendorglimorna blorgarlika
aplorika blorglika
Shorna
Shorneena
Shorliga
shorlaga
Shorlaika
Fragola
fragolieee
fragonardee
fraswhaa
fransolina
Florna
Blorna
Clorna
Shlorna
Mlorna

220

It's impossible to get anything done 
during the day. for me anyway. I'm about 
to go to sleep. and I feel like my 
Monday is already gone. total nightmare.

Well. it turned out not to be too bad of a 
monday. I went into chinatown and ate a few 
sandwiches. but I am tired, and, most of the 
monday is gone.

221

Quite a bit of stress. There are a lot of things 
on my mind right now. This. is a nightmare. I guess 
that the only thing that I have to worry about is my 
class, my web development class, and, well, I don't 
know what else. Oh man what a total nightmare. I'm 
worried. What a disaster. What a nightmare. I'm super 
tired. I applied for something through LinkedIn. I want 
to go do something. Get out of the house, but I haven't 
gone anywhere more than a few blocks away from home. The 
gas station. The other gas station. The grocery store. 
Such a nightmare. Such a disaster. I'm in a lousy sort of 
garbage mood. I sent out a few resumes and applications 
through LinkedIn, and I've never done that before, so this 
is new. Life is a total nightmare for me right now. I feel 
so discouraged. I know that I should be thinking of things, 
these difficulties, whatever is going on right now, as an 
opportunity. but I'm really discouraged.

Monday and Tuesday are free for me. My birthday is coming 
up. I haven't done anything for my birthday in the longest 
time. It's just something I haven't celebrated in a while. 
I just can't stop thinking about how everything is a disaster 
right now. a total disaster. I'm really hoping this is all for 
the best. It's just that it might be a while before I'm at that 
point, where I can say this all happened for the best. When my 
nails are even just a few days long, when they've been growing 
for just a few days, or when I haven't cut them for a few days 
I find that it's hard, or, maybe just awkward, to type. It's 
hard. It's uncomfortable to type when I have just a few days 
of nail growth. Job search. nightmare. I'm worried about these 
next few months. I'm worried about these next few weeks. 
constantly anxious, and I can't really get my thoughts together.

222

I had quite a bit of fun with my most recent class 
assignment. I have to figure out what the requirements 
for the 3rd project, but I think that everything that 
is due tomorrow, all the homework assignments, are 
completed. I also have to get around to filing an appeal 
of my termination, and I have to think about where to apply 
and how to apply for work, and I have to prepare for some 
kind of thing regarding unemployment.

223

A nice clean laptop screen is now mine. It's nice. I like it. 
I can really see now. I'm really surprised with how good it looks. 
I rubbed it with rubbing alcohol, and it's really clean, and 
everything looks really visible. Years ago, when I moved to Missouri, 
I cleaned my computer with water, and it fucked things up, and I didn't 
really have money for a new computer for a while. I still get emails 
from coin companies, marketing emails to see if I want to buy anything, 
and, the answer is kind of yes, but for whatever reason, I think that 
silver coins are sometimes bad luck.

224

What did I work on today? well, the course has a kind of running project 
that I'm working on, and that's basically what I worked on today. Visually 
speaking, my fourth version of my project, Project 3-4, isn't very different 
from my third version of my project, Project 3-3, but for whatever reason it 
feels like I spent a lot of time doing the things that I did manage to do.

225

13 22 90 35 12 19 86 26 31 80 55 33 91 50 53 49
52 32 85 95 26 32 15 45 26 26 14 52 36 25 85 59
06 07 11 13 27 36 26 52 36 01 05 06 08 07 25 85
15 45 78 52 63 95 85 74 85 25 63 11 01 20 10 41

227

Visual Studio and GitHub. I have to set those two 
things up for my class and coursework. I'm so 
hungry right now. I need to get something to eat.

I went out to eat. I thought about heading to 
Chinatown and finding something to eat there, but, I'm 
just too tired. and at the time I was just too hungry. 
I'm so tired. I hung out last night. In retrospect I would 
have been better just staying home. Last night was a disaster.

Well, I have a real desk. This is nice. I'm trying 
to get all my thoughts together, finding focus. 
I like rolling over my 401k into my IRA. I don't 
like switching employers, but I like roll overs. 
It does give me more control and flexibility with 
things. I'm trying to think about worst case 
scenarios for the next few weeks to come, for the 
weeks and months ahead. One thing I don't want to think 
about are those times with things are worse than I thought 
they would be in a worst case scenario.

228

What do I do? I got an email from. you know. 
the company that fired me stating that I can 
request an appeal to my termination. I'm going 
to do it, but I have no idea how to approach the 
whole thing. This is a headache. I got my final 
checks from work, or, well, I saw that they were 
issued today, I didn't actually get them, in my 
bank account or anything. I've been spending too 
much money over the last few days, and my spending 
is something that I really have to take down to, you 
know, something lower than it currently is. It's hot, 
I'm always sweating and I always feel somewhat greasy.

229

There are a few things in life that are just a little 
bit too strange. Like what? well, I applied for unemployment 
here in Nevada and I see that the last person I contacted 
for work was. someone. not here in Las Vegas, maybe a while 
ago, but not any more. or maybe. I wouldn't really know. 
I've tried to stay away from that part of town. I don't 
know what to do about the job search. I want to try using 
LinkedIn to look for work. I don't want to do anything too 
physically demanding if I can avoid it. How to stay in shape? 
I don't really know, I was getting fat anyway.

230

Goat Cheese Quarter Pounder

John Cage
This is a Double Quarter Pounder with Cheese and with EVEN MORE GOAT CHEESE!
Mozzarella Lover

John Cage
This is the Classic Buttery Jack with mozzarella and prosciutto.
Regular Fish & Chips

John Cage
This is pretty much just a regular quadruple serving of Fish & Chips.
Jalapeno Hotdog

John Cage
Your typical all-beef hotdog covered in jalapenos
Mozzarella Sticks

John Cage
This is an order of Mozzarela Sticks inside of a box from the restaurant 
chain called Jack in the Box. Where is Jack? these look like Mozzarella 
Sticks to me! I'll Never Let Go, Mozzarella! I'll Never Let Go!
Fried Catfish & Coleslaw

John Cage
Fried Catfish and Coleslaw is often considered one of the greatest meals in history.
Fried Prawns

John Cage
These are large shrimps, Prawns maybe, that have been sliced and fried.
Anchovy Pizza

John Cage
Anchovy pizza is the best kind of pizza that is ever made and will ever be made.
Two Breasts & Two Thighs

John Cage
Fried chicken is a true American classic. Maybe you love breasts. maybe you love 
thighs. maybe you're thinking of two breasts and maybe you're thinking about two 
thighs. eat them. they're yours.
Feta Cheese Big Mac

John Cage
This is your typical big mac with the addition of a slice of greek feta cheese.
Scotch & Soda

John Cage
When you can't handle it straight-up. When neat just really isn't your thing. and maybe 
Mr. Tom Collins never seems to hit the spot for you. Well: Scotch & Soda.
Pickle Dog

John Cage
Maybe you love pickles, and maybe you love hot dogs. Maybe you love it when it's 
beefier than you thought it would be. No matter what your deal is, you'll love the Pickle Dog.
Quesillo Sourdough Jack

John Cage
Mozzerella? NEVER buy local. Buy Quesillo de hebra!
Roquefort Angus Burger

John Cage
If you really can't stand the smell of Gorgonzola.
Oaxaca Cheese Double Jack Delish

John Cage
When you squeese the cotija and the cotija is a little harder than you expected. 
 keep squeezing that cotija, and it's still hard. Well, try squeezing the oaxaca. so soft. so tender.
Blue Cheese Burger Baby!

John Cage
Stilton is for Red Coats, and moreover, I have to ask if I look like Benedict 
Arnold? DO I! I'M ASKING! AND I EXPECT! A! RESPONSE!

231

I realized that I made a few errors, and there are a few things unfinished with my 
Hamburger Project. It's still a work in progress, and I'm really having fun with it. 
It's a diversion, but, it's also something important. somewhat. so I'll continue to 
work on it here and there.

232

Goat Cheese Quarter Pounder

Goat Cheese Quarter Pounder
This is a Double Quarter Pounder with 
Cheese and with EVEN MORE GOAT CHEESE!
Mozzarella Lover

Mozzarella Lover
This is the Classic Buttery Jack with mozzarella and prosciutto.
Regular Fish & Chips

Regular Fish & Chips
This is pretty much just a regular quadruple serving of Fish & Chips.
Jalapeno Hotdog

Jalapeno Hotdog
Your typical all-beef hotdog covered in jalapenos
Mozzarella Sticks

Mozzarella Sticks
This is an order of Mozzarela Sticks inside of a box 
from the restaurant chain called Jack in the Box. 
Where is Jack? these look like Mozzarella Sticks to 
me! I'll Never Let Go, Mozzarella! I'll Never Let Go!
Fried Catfish & Coleslaw

Fried Catfish & Coleslaw
Fried Catfish and Coleslaw is often considered one of the greatest meals in history.
Fried Prawns

John Cage
These are large shrimps, Prawns maybe, that have been sliced and fried.
Anchovy Pizza

John Cage
Anchovy pizza is the best kind of pizza that is ever made and will ever be made.
Two Breasts & Two Thighs

John Cage
Fried chicken is a true American classic. Maybe you love breasts. maybe you love 
thighs. maybe you're thinking of two breasts and maybe you're thinking about two 
thighs. eat them. they're yours.
Feta Cheese Big Mac

John Cage
This is your typical big mac with the addition of a slice of greek feta cheese.
Scotch & Soda

John Cage
When you can't handle it straight-up. When neat just really isn't your thing. and 
maybe Mr. Tom Collins never seems to hit the spot for you. Well: Scotch & Soda.
Pickle Dog

John Cage
Maybe you love pickles, and maybe you love hot dogs. Maybe you love it when it's 
beefier than you thought it would be. No matter what your deal is, you'll love 
the Pickle Dog.
Quesillo Sourdough Jack

John Cage
Mozzerella? NEVER buy local. Buy Quesillo de hebra!
Roquefort Angus Burger

John Cage
If you really can't stand the smell of Gorgonzola.
Oaxaca Cheese Double Jack Delish

John Cage
When you squeese the cotija and the cotija is a little harder than you 
expected. You keep squeezing that cotija, and it's still hard. Well, try 
squeezing the oaxaca. so soft. so tender.
Blue Cheese Burger Baby!

John Cage
Stilton is for Red Coats, and moreover, I have to ask if I look like 
Benedict Arnold? DO I! I'M ASKING! AND I EXPECT! A! RESPONSE!

233

Chestnut + Hazel Banner Goat Cheese Quarter Pounder Goat Cheese Quarter 
Pounder This is a Double Quarter Pounder with Cheese and with EVEN MORE 
GOAT CHEESE! Mozzarella Lover Mozzarella Lover This is the Classic Buttery 
Jack with mozzarella and prosciutto. Regular Fish & Chips Regular Fish & 
Chips This is pretty much just a regular quadruple serving of Fish & Chips. 
Jalapeno Hotdog Jalapeno Hotdog Your typical all-beef hotdog covered in 
jalapenos Mozzarella Sticks Mozzarella Sticks This is an order of Mozzarela 
Sticks inside of a box from the restaurant chain called Jack in the Box. 
Where is Jack? these look like Mozzarella Sticks to me! I'll Never Let Go, 
Mozzarella! I'll Never Let Go! Fried Catfish & Coleslaw Fried Catfish & 
Coleslaw Fried Catfish and Coleslaw is often considered one of the greatest 
meals in history. Fried Prawns Fried Prawns These are large shrimps, Prawns 
maybe, that have been sliced and fried. Anchovy Pizza Anchovy Pizza Anchovy 
pizza is the best kind of pizza that is ever made and will ever be made. 
Two Breasts & Two Thighs John Cage Fried chicken is a true American classic. 
Maybe you love breasts. maybe you love thighs. maybe you're thinking of two 
breasts and maybe you're thinking about two thighs. eat them. they're yours. 
Feta Cheese Big Mac Feta Cheese Big Mac This is your typical big mac with the 
addition of a slice of greek feta cheese. Scotch & Soda Scotch & Soda When you 
can't handle it straight-up. When neat just really isn't your thing. and maybe 
Mr. Tom Collins never seems to hit the spot for you. Well: Scotch & Soda. 
Pickle Dog Pickle Dog Maybe you love pickles, and maybe you love hot dogs. 
Maybe you love it when it's beefier than you thought it would be. No matter 
what your deal is, you'll love the Pickle Dog. Quesillo Sourdough Jack Quesillo 
Sourdough Jack Mozzerella? NEVER buy local. Buy Quesillo de hebra! Roquefort 
Angus Burger Roquefort Angus Burger If you really can't stand the smell of 
Gorgonzola. Oaxaca Cheese Double Jack Delish Oaxaca Cheese Double Jack Delish 
When you squeese the cotija and the cotija is a little harder than you expected. 
You keep squeezing that cotija, and it's still hard. Well, try squeezing the 
oaxaca. so soft. so tender. Blue Cheese Burger Baby! Blue Cheese Burger Baby! 
Stilton is for Red Coats, and moreover, I have to ask if I look like Benedict 
Arnold? DO I! I'M ASKING! AND I EXPECT! A! RESPONSE!

234

Going on a road trip is kind of on my mind right now. but it's not really a 
good idea when I think about it. I just got canned. I should be looking for 
work. but what kind of work should I be looking for?

235

Totally got canned today. by email. and in this case the nightmare is over, 
because the nightmare already just happened. there's like, impending doom, the 
moment of doom, and what happens after the moment of doom, and that's where 
I'm at right now: post-doom. I don't know what to do. This is a disaster. 
Total nightmare. I have no idea about what to do. I worked on one of the other 
assignments for my programming class, and it looks really cool. I don't know 
what to do work-wise.

236

This last assignment for my software and web development course was 
just too fun. It took me forever, but I was able to get everything 
working, and I think the iframes below should work. I'm really dreading 
going back to work, and I'm also really dreading the idea that my last 
day at work is just around the corner.

237

I have no idea what kind of position to be looking for. I really 
want to take a nap right now. I don't know what's going to happen 
as far as work goes. I have to remember that this could be an opportunity 
to do something new, and, that's something I should look forward to. 
I don't have a resume. I haven't been to an interview in forever. I don't 
know where to begin. This is a nightmare. I was able to track down some 
old files on an older laptop that I have. I don't know why this older laptop 
is so slow, I bought it last year, but from the very beginning it just didn't 
work very quickly. Moving the files took about an hour, and I want to say that 
the total number of files was around 20,000 at maybe 200 GB, and I really don't 
think that's a lot of stuff to move, it was just from my computers internal storage 
to an external storage device. an hour. really.

238

I am already tired of compiling this document
or putting together this massive, epic poem of mine!
tired really tired.

239

Not really feeling all that fabulous. I've been using 
some of the dating apps again, but, being on those things 
makes me unhappy more often than it makes me happy. They 
depress me more than they elevate my mood in any way. This 
dating app stuff really makes me unhappy, and maybe that's 
the whole idea. I don't want to do it, I want to get off 
these dating apps, and I think that I will.

Working and and reworking some of my course projects 
turned out to be very enjoyable. I think that I took 
it in one direction, and then wanted to go back and 
take it in a slightly different direction. I want to 
continue to try a few things, but we are already moving 
on to new things, and I still want to play around with 
it. I think that if I started on it sooner, than I could 
have spent more time playing around with it, but I more 
or less just started on it this morning.

There are 3 copyright registrations pending, 
and 1 trademark registration pending for 
Chestnut + Hazel. This should be kind of cool. 
I'm really unhappy about all the dating app 
stuff. I really want to delete these things. 
I'm not happy with them. I don't know what to 
do with them, mothball them maybe. I'm really 
not feeling well, at all, everything is just a 
total nightmare. dread. everything. is not going 
well. I don't know what on earth to do about work. 
My inclination is to wait until I'm canned before 
I do any job search kind of stuff. My suspension 
ends on August 8th, and at that point I'll know if 
I'm going to get canned, or if I'm going to go back 
to work. I haven't done well in the 8 or whatever 
weeks I've been at this new location.

and it's not like starting today with any job search 
is really going to give me any kind of advantage. 3 
or 4 days or whatever is not a huge head start.

240

So Chestnut + Hazel officially has a trademark 
pending. It might be a year before I hear anything 
back from the US PTO. There are also a few copyright 
registrations that I have pending, and in my 
experience, those could take about four months to process.

With all the other stuff I have going on, the disasters, 
the impending disasters. I'm going to dig into my homework 
that's due tomorrow, and see where that goes. there are so 
many things going on, so many things going wrong that I 
really don't know where to begin. So close. I had these 
credit cards on the way to zero, and now this. I'm frozen 
right now, not in the sense that I'm immobile, or stuck 
in place, but I have things to do that I just haven't 
done yet. so. I'm just here.

So I'm working on one of my class projects, and it was 
pretty interesting. I spent too much time on this last 
thing, working with padding, margins, and borders. I 
integrated the new concepts into a previous project, 
and created and messed around with some of the buttons 
that I created.

241

This chair that I'm sitting on 
right now is falling apart 
structurally.

242

What a mood I'm in! I don't 
really feel all that great 
right now. I did laundry, I 
cleaned my card. I registered 
a copyright and a trademark, 
or, it has to be awarded, so I 
guess I submitted the applications 
for registration. I'm worried about 
the prospect of getting canned from 
work. Getting canned is something 
that I should take as an opportunity, 
to do something else, to try something 
new, but it's not something I'm really 
prepared for. Credit Card wise, I'd be 
back in minimum payment mode. I was so 
close, and now it all falls apart again. 
I need to finish my homework for class. 
The thing is. I have no idea what to 
do about class if I have to start 
looking for work again, because, I 
prefer working nights, but it isn't 
clear to me what else is out there working 
nights.

243

Years ago, like a decade ago really, like ten years ago or more, 
I remember wanting to work at a casino, but I never did it, this 
was when I was living in San Jose, CA, and there were a number of 
card houses in the area, and, I think at the time a new card house 
completed construction. I don't really go into casinos, I don't really 
gamble, and so I don't really no much about them. Last year when I went 
on my road trips from Texas to Michigan I came across tons of casinos, 
it's really surprising how many there are, there's not the concentration 
of casinos out there like there are here in Las Vegas, NV, but they are 
out there, and you see them every so often.

244

This is kind of a headache. I think that I bit off more than I can chew.
I don't know what other things to put into this Epic Adventure Poem of mine.

245

There was one in Michigan, I think, somewhere close to Battle Creek, MI 
that I stopped at and checked out, mostly for the restaurants, I stayed 
at the less expensive motel across the street. I played a few games of 
some kind of card game, but, I don't remember what it was called, or what 
it was or what the rules were, I just chatted with the card dealer and 
kind of got a feeling of what the role is like.

246

This is a little bit of a nightmare. I can't really think right now. 
There are so many things on my mind right now that I'm worried about, 
and my thoughts skip from one thing to another. I want to finish my 
coursework today, but I also need to finish my course work today.

247

So it's kind of back to square one, I'm kind of back to the drawing 
board on the Chestnut and Hazel logo or trademark. Some of the newer 
things that I've tried don't really succeed as a favicon, and that really 
plays into it. The success or the failure of the design of the trademark 
logo hinges upon whether or not it looks nice as a favicon, and there 
really isn't much to work with when it comes to a favicon. I'm working 
on this design pixel by pixel, by hand, and part of the reason I'm doing 
this is to make sure that I can obtain a copyright, and eventually a trademark.

248

Chestnut + Hazel, all characters stylized

Chestnut + Hazel, all characters stylized, the word chestnut is brown, 
the plus sign is red, and the word hazel is green

the word chestnut is colored brown, hex value #875941 RGB value (135, 89, 65) HSV value (21,52,53)
the plus sign character is colored red, hex value #7E0113 RGB value (126,1,19) HSV value (351,99,49)
the word Hazel is colored green, hex value #2D910D RGB value (45,145,13) HSV value (105,91,57)

the word Chestnut appears first with the plus sign character to the right of the word Chestnut, the 
word Hazel appears below the word Chestnut, and is indented. the letter C in the word Chestnut is 
larger than the letters forming hestnut and the letter H in the word Hazel is larger than the remaining letters forming azel.

Chestnut + Hazel, all characters stylized, the word chestnut is brown, the plus sign is red, and the word hazel is green

the word chestnut is colored brown, hex value #875941 RGB value (135, 89, 65) HSV value (21,52,53)
the plus sign character is colored red, hex value #7E0113 RGB value (126,1,19) HSV value (351,99,49)
the word Hazel is colored green, hex value #2D910D RGB value (45,145,13) HSV value (105,91,57)

Chestnut + Hazel, all characters stylized, the word chestnut is colored brown, hex value #875941 RGB value (135, 89, 65) HSV value (21,52,53)
the plus sign character is colored red, hex value #7E0113 RGB value (126,1,19) HSV value (351,99,49)
the word Hazel is colored green, hex value #2D910D RGB value (45,145,13) HSV value (105,91,57),
the word Chestnut appears first with the plus sign character to the right of the word Chestnut, the word Hazel 
appears below the word Chestnut, and is indented. the letter C in the word Chestnut is larger than the letters 
forming hestnut and the letter H in the word Hazel is larger than the remaining letters forming azel.

249

48 Logos and Logo Elements for Chestnut + Hazel

So Chestnut + Hazel officially has a trademark pending. 
It might be a year before I hear anything back from the US PTO. 
There are also a few copyright registrations that I have pending, 
and in my experience, those could take about four months to process.

With all the other stuff I have going on, the disasters, the impending 
disasters. I'm going to dig into my homework that's due tomorrow, and 
see where that goes. there are so many things going on, so many things 
going wrong that I really don't know where to begin. So close. I had these 
credit cards on the way to zero, and now this. I'm frozen right now, not 
in the sense that I'm immobile, or stuck in place, but I have things to do 
that I just haven't done yet. so. I'm just here.

So I'm working on one of my class projects, and it was pretty interesting. 
I spent too much time on this last thing, working with padding, margins, and 
borders. I integrated the new concepts into a previous project, and created 
and messed around with some of the buttons that I created.

250

What a mood I'm in! I don't really feel all that great right now. I did laundry, I cleaned my card. 
I registered a copyright and a trademark, or, it has to be awarded, so I guess I submitted the 
applications for registration. I'm worried about the prospect of getting canned from work. Getting 
canned is something that I should take as an opportunity, to do something else, to try something new, 
but it's not something I'm really prepared for. Credit Card wise, I'd be back in minimum payment mode. 
I was so close, and now it all falls apart again. I need to finish my homework for class. The thing is. 
I have no idea what to do about class if I have to start looking for work again, because, I prefer 
working nights, but it isn't clear to me what else is out there working nights.

Years ago, like a decade ago really, like ten years ago or more, I remember wanting to work at a 
casino, but I never did it, this was when I was living in San Jose, CA, and there were a number of 
card houses in the area, and, I think at the time a new card house completed construction. I don't 
really go into casinos, I don't really gamble, and so I don't really no much about them. Last year 
when I went on my road trips from Texas to Michigan I came across tons of casinos, it's really 
surprising how many there are, there's not the concentration of casinos out there like there are here 
in Las Vegas, NV, but they are out there, and you see them every so often.

There was one in Michigan, I think, somewhere close to Battle Creek, MI that I stopped at and checked 
out, mostly for the restaurants, I stayed at the less expensive motel across the street. I played a 
few games of some kind of card game, but, I don't remember what it was called, or what it was or what 
the rules were, I just chatted with the card dealer and kind of got a feeling of what the role is like.

251

This is a little bit of a nightmare. I can't really think right 
now. There are so many things on my mind right now that I'm 
worried about, and my thoughts skip from one thing to another. 
I want to finish my coursework today, but I also need to finish 
my course work today.

252

So it's kind of back to square one, I'm kind of back to the drawing 
board on the Chestnut and Hazel logo or trademark. Some of the newer 
things that I've tried don't really succeed as a favicon, and that 
really plays into it. The success or the failure of the design of the 
trademark logo hinges upon whether or not it looks nice as a favicon, 
and there really isn't much to work with when it comes to a favicon. 
I'm working on this design pixel by pixel, by hand, and part of the 
reason I'm doing this is to make sure that I can obtain a copyright, 
and eventually a trademark.

253

Chestnut + Hazel, all characters stylized

Chestnut + Hazel, all characters stylized, the 
word chestnut is brown, the plus sign is red, 
and the word hazel is green

the word chestnut is colored brown, hex value #875941 RGB value (135, 89, 65) HSV value (21,52,53)
the plus sign character is colored red, hex value #7E0113 RGB value (126,1,19) HSV value (351,99,49)
the word Hazel is colored green, hex value #2D910D RGB value (45,145,13) HSV value (105,91,57)

the word Chestnut appears first with the plus sign character to the right of the word Chestnut, 
the word Hazel appears below the word Chestnut, and is indented. the letter C in the word 
Chestnut is larger than the letters forming hestnut and the letter H in the word Hazel is 
larger than the remaining letters forming azel.

Chestnut + Hazel, all characters stylized, the word chestnut is brown, the plus sign is red, and the word hazel is green

the word chestnut is colored brown, hex value #875941 RGB value (135, 89, 65) HSV value (21,52,53)
the plus sign character is colored red, hex value #7E0113 RGB value (126,1,19) HSV value (351,99,49)
the word Hazel is colored green, hex value #2D910D RGB value (45,145,13) HSV value (105,91,57)

Chestnut + Hazel, all characters stylized, the word chestnut is colored brown, hex value #875941 RGB value (135, 89, 65) 
HSV value (21,52,53)
the plus sign character is colored red, hex value #7E0113 RGB value (126,1,19) HSV value (351,99,49)
the word Hazel is colored green, hex value #2D910D RGB value (45,145,13) HSV value (105,91,57),
the word Chestnut appears first with the plus sign character to the right of the word Chestnut, the word Hazel appears 
below the word Chestnut, and is indented. the letter C in the word Chestnut is larger than the letters forming hestnut 
and the letter H in the word Hazel is larger than the remaining letters forming azel.

254

48 Logos and Logo Elements for Chestnut + Hazel

Updating titles to some of my blog posts, mostly just 
taking posts that are Archived Content posts and shoving 
them into the nearest series of posts, Reflections from 
Chestnut Street or Letters from Sanford Street or whatever. 
There is the issue of work. I was at two write-ups, and now 
I'm on suspension. I don't know what on earth to do, even if, 
somehow, I end up keeping my position, there is still the issue 
of things not really becoming easier at work. Things just 
haven't become easier.

255

Around 2 PM yesterday I stopped at a motel about 100 miles 
outside of Las Vegas and stopped to rest. It's 3 AM right now. 
I thought about heading home early but there's no key drop off 
so I guess I'll finish out my stay. I missed 2 days of work, 
this isn't the end of the world, but it's definitely sub-optimal. 
I wanted to see the Utah Natural History Museum, but I couldn't 
figure out how to get tickets from their website, and 3rd party 
websites didn't offer them either. Plus, it wasn't open at 6 AM or 
whatever, so I headed back home because I was really in a shitty mood. 
I did consider continuing on to Boise, Idaho, thinking that I might 
still be able to go in to work, well, I didn't make it. I might try 
this again, but who knows.

256

Maybe I'll just say it the way it is. 
I'm feeling unbelievably depressed. 
Like real bad. An unshakable melancholy 
that won't go the fuck away. I'm really 
glad I did this because as soon as I get 
back to Las Vegas I'm setting up a doctor's 
appointment. There's no reason for me to feel 
this unhappy. None. 

But right now, I don't really know what 
to do. I really want to take. Nap but 
check in isn't until 230. I could be back 
in Vegas by that time.

I'm so unhappy. 
It comes out of nowhere. 
I don't know what the fuck causes it. 

It has to be some kind of chemical imbalance. 
If I have no reason to feel sad, 
and feel sad out of nowhere, 
then there's really no other fucking explanation.

Anyway. Salt Lake City is kind of nice, 
between Provo and Salt Lake City there's a 
town that really felt like Overland Park, Kansas.

257

That was quick. my phone is now covered in cracks, and it looks like a spider web.

258

That was quick. my phone is now covered in cracks, and it looks like a spider web.

259

The Best Haircut (2023)

Hello Earth! Moon! Mars! & Venus!
What I thought was a haircut turned out
not to be a haircut. it was. actually.
just. hair.

hiding behind the neck.
hair hides behind the neck
and plays

hide and seek.
or maybe
MARCO ! POLO !
no hair is the same as hairless
no hare is a tortoise.
FASTER! slower. FASTER! FASTER! FASTER!

Harder? like the shell of a tortoise?
NO! just FASTER!
My home
is on Audrey Hepburn Street!

where else could I possibly live?

Things I like about my home
foremost among those things I like about my home

is that Audrey Hepburn is always here

and in the neighborhood I like that we have

places Audrey Hepburn likes to eat
places Audrey Hepburn likes to go
places Audrey Hepburn likes to see

260

The Best Haircut (2023) by Kenneth Larot Yamat dba Chestnut + Hazel
"The Best Haircut" is actually a poem about Marianne Shaffer

Letters to Katastrophiena # 6
Publication Date 07/21/2023

I really would like to file a copyright for just 
that one poem, rather than having it ride inside The Epic Adventures
of Chestnut + Hazel.

261

I'm trying to think. I have class until noon today, then I go into 
work at 6 pm, or slightly after. there is really no time for me to 
do anything until the weekend. or, well, my weekend, which is in 
the middle of the week.

262

The Best Haircut (2023)

Hello Earth! Moon! Mars! & Venus!
What I thought was a haircut turned out
not to be a haircut. it was. actually.
just. hair.

hiding behind the neck.
hair hides behind the neck
and plays

hide and seek.
or maybe
MARCO ! POLO !

no hair is the same as hairless
no hare is a tortoise.

FASTER! slower. FASTER! FASTER! FASTER!
Harder? like the shell of a tortoise?
NO! just FASTER!

My home
is on Audrey Hepburn Street!

where else could I possibly live?
Things I like about my home
foremost among those things I like about my home

is that Audrey Hepburn is always here
and in the neighborhood I like that we have

places Audrey Hepburn likes to eat
places Audrey Hepburn likes to go
places Audrey Hepburn likes to see

kenneth

what?

what are you working on?

i'm not working on anything. 
i know that i should be working on 
something, but, i'm goofing off. 
well. i'm working on my blog. so 
i am. actually. working on something.

are you doing anything next week?
i'm thinking about the salt lake city thing again.
i'm not sure if it's as exciting as you imagine it to be.
so?

if you're trying to enjoy yourself, you should 
aim to have the most fun with the least effort.

263

i thought
that it was
entertaining that
you were
in time
for cornflakes

i never really
thought you
liked cornflakes

i thought that
you were more 
of a

frosted flakes
kind of person

264

"The Best Stuff is not Stuffing" (2023)

The Best Stuff is not Stuffing
The best things that are for thanksgiving

could be called green bean casserole and
candied yams,
but not stuffing
you see, stuffing is a verb

and not a noun
and therefore not a thing
and therefore cannot be among the best things
because stuffing is a verb and it is not a noun

and therefore not a thing
and as a consequence cannot be among the best things

265

when those things are 
changed and transformed into
the new things that
have been or where
or what
have you been
when the test of the
multiple choices

266

hear the things
that have been said
before
and here 
are the things that are
written on the back of
where you were when you had been the best

267

how are the best things
that you can think of being
used to be the best of the things
that you think are the less of the 
comparison

and that's what the things
you think of as being the best
of the least common
aspects of things you hear
when you taste the
you know what.

268

Lately I haven't felt the really deep sadness 
that I've been struggling with for quite a 
few months, but right now I feel like it can 
head in that direction.

269

One of the pairs of jeans that I bought is 
just plain white. They were already dirty by 
the time I got home and put them on, but they 
are very comfortable for some reason. I think 
that dyes can change how cotton fabrics feel, 
I'm not sure if there is a difference when it 
comes to synthetic fabrics.

Yeah, these jeans are really comfortable. 
I'm really surprised with how comfortable they are.

270

I bought two pairs of jeans, two pairs of 
pants. three shirts, two of which have 
shirt pockets, and two pairs of shoes.

271

I bought a shirt. It's kind of small. 
well. Actually. It is small, but it's 
smaller than I thought it would be.

272

Kenneth. write this down. Forget about salt 
lake city temporarily. Stay local for now. do 
some in-person shopping to get out and explore.

273

Lately I haven't felt the really deep sadness 
that I've been struggling with for quite a few 
months, but right now I feel like it can head 
in that direction.

274

Kenneth
what
did you notice anything today
yeah
what did you notice?
tabasco sauce.

and where is tabasco sauce made?
i'm not going to answer that.
yes you are

louisiana
remember that.

anyway. I usually eat my burritos with sweet and sour sauce.
yeah, that bothers me.
why do you care?
i don't.

275

Right now I'm not feeling unhappy, 
or angry, or manic, or anxious, or 
worried. I'm kind of centered right 
now and this is kind of nice.

276

I've been up for about 2 hours, or 
what feels like 2 hours, it's actually 
only been an hour and a half, but it feels 
like I haven't done anything. I tidied up, 
and took a shower and did some grooming and 
laundry, these don't always feel like real 
accomplishments, but they are things that 
need to be done, and I honestly want to spend 
more time, I want to dedicate more time to 
looking good. or at least looking like I actually 
put in time to. look more or less. I think I 
want to look like I put some thought into it, 
and I put some effort into it, but not in a way 
that's extremely high-maintenance or anything and 
in a way that's clearly not high-maintenance.

277

Maybe to put it another way. I want to look 
very nice in a way that is very efficient and 
also looks very efficient. One issue I'm having 
right now is actually. Pants.

278

I really want to file 
a patent for some kind of 
useful software program.

I'm failing MIS 768
and I'm trying to salvage whatever 
time I've spent and whatever money 
I've spent to take the course. 

There isn't an absolution clause in 
the MIS 768 syllabus that states:
"All your academic sins are washed away 
when you file a patent during the course of 
this class."

when I say that I'm trying to salvage the situation 
what I mean is. Getting a good grade, like an A in 
the course would be an asset, but obtaining a patent 
after creating something useful from the knowlege I'd 
obtained while taking the course would create an actual 
asset.

I good grade is an asset in a figurative sense

279

// this was interesting - 
// eclipse doesn't really say that this is where the class Book was, but
// i figured that if I moved the files into - or a i moved the 
// files, the .java classes into a new package, that it would 
// throw errors since the Book.java files are not in
// the same package. 
// figurative

280

So many emails and I'm 
really nobody notable.

Anyway, pants. I kind of want to 
have a 2 week supply of pants, but 
I'm not sure I really need that many. 
It's just that some times. I don't 
really need 14 pairs of pants, It's 
just sometimes I don't always have 
the time to do laundry every week.

281

I guess what I want in a pair of pants 
is a shorter inseam and more of a taper, 
without it being a slim fit. The length 
of the inseam isn't something I worried 
about when I wore boots, but I don't really 
wear boots that much anymore so the inseam matters.

282

Kenneth
what

did you notice 
anything today

yeah
what did you notice?

tabasco sauce.
and where is tabasco sauce made?

i'm not going to answer that.
yes you are

louisiana
remember that.

anyway. I usually eat my burritos 
with sweet and sour sauce.
yeah, that bothers me.

why do you care?
i don't.

283

Right now I'm not feeling unhappy, or angry, or manic, 
or anxious, or worried. I'm kind of centered 
right now and this is kind of nice.

284

I've been up for about 2 hours, or what feels like 2 
hours, it's actually only been an hour and a half, but 
it feels like I haven't done anything. I tidied up, and 
took a shower and did some grooming and laundry, these 
don't always feel like real accomplishments, but they are 
things that need to be done, and I honestly want to spend 
more time, I want to dedicate more time to looking good. 
or at least looking like I actually put in time to. look 
more or less. I think I want to look like I put some thought 
into it, and I put some effort into it, but not in a way 
that's extremely high-maintenance or anything and in a way 
that's clearly not high-maintenance.

285

Maybe to put it another way. I want to look very nice 
in a way that is very efficient and also looks very efficient. 
One issue I'm having right now is actually. Pants.

So many emails and I'm really 
nobody notable.

Anyway, pants. I kind of want to have a 2 week 
supply of pants, but I'm not sure I really need that 
many. It's just that some times. I don't really need 
14 pairs of pants, It's just sometimes I don't always 
have the time to do laundry every week.

I guess what I want in a pair of pants is a 
shorter inseam and more of a taper, without it 
being a slim fit. The length of the inseam isn't 
something I worried about when I wore boots, but I 
don't really wear boots that much anymore so the 
inseam matters.

286

It's midnight, lunchtime, and I feel kind of unhappy. 
There is a brick inside my chest. A stack of bricks. I 
don't know what causes this. It oscillates. My mood 
oscillates from irritated to unhappy. Over and over. Sad 
to grouchy and grouchy to sad and over and over and I have 
no idea why.

287

To the Divine One who
holds dominion over
all those things
that can and usually do go wrong 
for me

yesterday was agonizing
and
i'm sure there's a time 
and place
and purpose 
for everything

i'm sure there are times when it's
appropriate to torture
kenneth

but i'm also sure there's an
appropriate time
to show kenneth mercy

things have been more or less downhill since february of 2022, and, 
maybe things have become a little bit better since i left texas and 
came back to nevada, but it has been at kind of a snail's pace and i 
honestly consider this a form of torture. i think. that. the time for 
delivering mercy. unto kenneth. is at hand. divine one.

anyway. i registered the domain katastrophiena.com and um, i think i'll 
finally get around to registering a few trademarks.

288

// the backslash is called an escape character needs to add a backslash 
// I remember that there was something about file paths here, 
// when there has to be double backslashes.		

// I'm following along with the video, but rather than
// deleting the code, I'm just going to comment it out for now. 
// D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\improvedbooktestparttwo.csv
// I don't know why it's not showing up in eclipse, or not showing up right away.
// something about the file paths. I found them.


289

I didn't get much sleep this morning. I was busy 
setting up the new domain and emails for it and 
doing a little writing that I found that it was 
noon before I even got a chance to lay down and 
rest. So I'm at six hours of sleep for the day 
which is a lot less than usual but I'll see how 
this goes.

The fact that I had so many energy drinks the day 
before may have also played into it as well. It's 
hot. Really hot, and it's hot enough that the AC in 
my car accomplishes almost nothing when it's running. 
I don't remember it being this hot the last time I was 
in Vegas five years ago.

290

Some of the things that you think will be 
amazing, will actually be more boring that you think.

291

Some of the things that you think 
will be amazing, will actually be 
more boring that you think.

292

No ideas but inside 
every idea is a new idea 
and there are shells of new ideas 
and there are no ideas but inside 
things called brains and there are no 
images except in a PNG format and
she was not wearing any panties and 
for one reason or another I did not 
make a move on her.

293

This is the way it goes. and this 
is the way it will always be.
and this is the wonder that's keeping 
your thighs apart: I carry your panties.
I carry them in my left pocket!

294

Anyway, I'm blank right now. I can't 
really think about. I can't really 
figure out what to do. I don't really 
know what I would do in the event that 
I had to, or would have to look for a 
new job. I really don't. I don't really 
even have a resume. I think. I haven't 
really been motivated to look for anything 
new, and I haven't really been interested 
in looking for anything new.

295

Before I left Arlington I applied for and 
received an offer for an outside sales role. 
I don't know if it's still referred to as 
outside sales. I didn't take it because it 
would have. I wouldn't have been able to go 
to college and work. The scheduling wouldn't 
work. That one incomplete semester set me back 
ten thousand bucks, and, in retrospect I probably 
should have taken the job. I remember seeing their 
headquarters building in Nashville during that first 
road trip through the Midwest. I can't really do 
anything this year. I'm so damn far behind.

Yeah, I don't really know what I would 
do if I had to start looking for work again. 
I did take a look the other day, but, I didn't 
send out any applications, and, no resumes since 
I don't have one. There was one opening that 
really caught my eye, but I kind of just want to 
stay where I'm at and see what develops. If I 
were to get canned I'll just take it as an 
opportunity to try something new.

296

I'm trying to figure out where to start. 
I'm thinking that I should look at a number 
of positions, and seeing what qualifications 
are required, and then seeing what kind of 
educational or technical or vocational 
training I need. I'm really kind of averse 
to working during the day.

297

This is the last day of the work week. 
That went really fast. It usually doesn't 
go by that fast. I did sign up for 
overtime this week. A half shift in the 
middle of my weekend, and that's both a 
good thing and a not-so-good thing. It has 
positives and negatives. On the one hand it 
breaks my weekend, but on the other, it doesn't 
lengthen my workweek the way it would if it were 
at the beginning or at the end of my workweek.

I've been thinking about going somewhere, 
not anywhere too far, but I'm not really 
sure if I should or not.

298

i imagined you called me
and asked me to coffee
i imagined zero things i'd rather do
than have coffee with you

299

This is the last day of the work week. 
That went really fast. It usually doesn't 
go by that fast. I did sign up for overtime 
this week. A half shift in the middle of my 
weekend, and that's both a good thing and a 
not-so-good thing. It has positives and 
negatives. On the one hand it breaks 
my weekend, but on the other, it 
doesn't lengthen my workweek 
the way it would if it were 
at the beginning or at the 
end of my workweek.

I've been thinking 
about going somewhere, 
not anywhere too far, but 
I'm not really sure if I should 
or not.

300

i imagined you called me
and asked me to coffee
i imagined zero things i'd rather do
than have coffee with you

301

I went to the buffet yesterday. 
I got a fortune cookie and I feel 
like fortune cookies are my, secondary 
of course, but almost a second primary 
reason for going to the buffet. I was 
disappointed with what it said because 
it didn't feel like it really meant 
anything to me. it said something like: 
an optimistic heart clears the path to 
victory. and I'm not even sure how that's 
relevant to me.

My work week isn't that long. 
I work four days a week. nights.

My work
week isn't
that
long.

302

here you are again. I see you.
you are looking at me, but guess what!
I AM ALSO LOOKING AT YOU!

303

It's the last work 
day of the week.

304

These Facebook memories feel 
weird to look at. Fort Smith, 
Arkansas; Azle, Texas; Beaverlick, 
Kentucky; Holladay, Tennessee; Cameron 
Missouri; Sunnyvale, California.

It's weird because maybe life really 
does happen in cycles. I thought 
about taking a road trip the 
other day, not because I 
wanted to, but out of 
frustration, to kind 
of blow off steam.

I realized that I 
really don't go anywhere 
or even get out of the house 
unless I'm frustrated with something.

305

Well, 
I put it all in an index fund, 
and, 
I'm just going to leave it where it is.

306

I don't think I created a good 
faith violation with my IRA, but 
I'm not really when I'll know for 
sure. Well, two days from now I guess. 
I'm going to day trade tomorrow, but 
I'm going to take it slow, play it safe, 
and not let my emotions get the better of me.

307

not sure but there 
are more spiders than there are 
insects in the mouths 
of birds that fly 
around and eat spiders 
and other insects. it's true!

/*

// i couldn't see the csv folder that was being created, it was being filtered out
// so i removed all filters, and now I see everything. 

// D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\booktest.csv 
// for whatever reason this doesn't seem to be showing up in my eclipse like in the video. in the class.
// https://unlv.hosted.panopto.com/Panopto/Pages/Viewer.aspx?id=c65b75ac-c935-4946-bc8d-b117002f504a&start=0

*/

I'm thinking about what 
to do about my IRA, like, 
I'm thinking about what I 
should do next. Now that 
I've closed out my position 
in VFC, I can really do 
something else. I'm not here 
trying to grind my way into a 
profit, or, out of a loss or 
whatever. I'm irritated because 
I spent so much time trying to 
make it work, and now it's just over.

308

On the one hand I'm thinking that 
maybe this is the point where it 
would have turned around, and I 
could have existed without a loss, 
or, even have made some money, on 
the other hand, VFC could just as 
easily have dropped to 8.00 a share, 
in fact, I think I was strategizing 
on how to deal with that exact situation, 
but, then it started turning around.

What did the fortune cookie say?

"The universe is aligning 
to bring you a soulmate connection."

and I'm just thinking: 
yeah, sure it is.

When I think about how that all 
turned out, like, I would have 
been better off just getting a 
second job or something, but that 
wouldn't work either because I'm 
really just too tired to work two jobs.

309

I've cleaned 
up my car quite a 
bit, but I still 
have quite a bit of 
stuff in there that 
I don't know what to do 
with, or that I haven't 
made a decision on how to 
deal with. I had shoes and 
clothes in there that I hadn't 
taken out for months.

310

when you see the deserted
places that have been destroyed
the places that have been abandoned
after being destroyed
there will be more

places that will be built 
after other places are 
destroyed.

new places will be built and
new places will come into
come into 
existence
after the other places
no longer exist

311

I haven't bought a new computer game, 
and I don't really anticipate buying a new computer game.

this 
was a spam
message that 
I put on here
to give an example
of the

312

This is a nightmare.
I don't know why I say that all the time, 
but really
this is a nightmare.

I'm trying to track down all the writing I've 
done, the this or that, and complie it all 
into a single epic poem of such Epic-ness that 
you know: it will be epic!

but it's a nightmare. I'm looking at the letters from 
washburn road, and I remember I had a series or sequence 
before that one, and a sequence before that.

312

Can you send pictures of whatever
it is you are looking at because I can't 
quite picture in my head the exact thing
that you are describing to me.

313

So after cleaning up all of the posts that were flagged, 
I got another notice that the issue has been flagged again, 
and so I have to spend time looking through my blog again 
and figure out where all the offending posts are.  

This is somewhat difficult given that there are so many 
posts for me to look through.

314

So it's everything after the Letters from Sanford Street 
that I can add to this Epic Poem of the Epic Adventures of 
Chestnut + Hazel.

315

Here are the best of the
worst of the last of the 
newest and the most recent
of the latest and the greatest
and the most trending stuff

and if you slay when you
get things done or maybe things
you try to do fall flat or
maybe you slay when you fail
or maybe you do well or maybe
you

don't do what you think about
doing when the best of the
orange juice turns into a horse
the size of a tangerine.

316

I think that everything 
with my blog has been taken 
care of in terms of content 
decency or content restrictions, 
and so I guess I was able to put 
the ads back on my blog. I finally 
finished it. It wasn't that hard or 
anything. I don't know why I didn't 
finish it for several months. The ads 
have been of since March 16th, and it's 
May 16th. There were several posts that 
I had to fix, and I think that I was 
debating between just making minor 
edits to each post, or just making 
entirely new posts.

They went to the store
and they bought a bag
of fruits and with the fruits
they made a bunch of different
drinks depending on what kind
of fruits they had

if they had oranges they
would make orange juice
and if they had grapes
they would make grape juice.

317

and I have to ask if you 
knew who the people were
who changed the fruits into

different kinds of drinks
if they knew that grapes
could become grape juice

and pomegranates could
become
pomegranate juice

did they
know or
did they
not know

318

These are where
the oranges are turned
into the paste 

and the pulp
becomes part of the orange
juice 

and the lemonade 

and
the fruit punch makes
things and drinks that you
can enjoy.

These are the drinks that
are enjoyable to drink.

319

Project Proposal:				

To create a program that automatically creates
trading tickets for a security, for example, buy 
and sell orders for shares of an exchange traded fund.

A user would only manually enter the first order, either to 
buy or sell a security, the program would populate and submit 
a new ticket based on the fulfillment of the previous ticket, 
the chain of tickets would continue until the user decided to
cancel the chain.

Another application of this program would be to serve as a
treasury management solution.

320

There's a Little Caesars Pizza close to where I live. 
I went there a few times to get pizza, and I want to 
say that the last two times I went there, nothing was 
Hot-N-Ready, so I would go to the grocery store, or 
7-11, or something, I don't remember exactly; I clearly 
didn't starve to death. Anyway, I went again today, and, 
not wanting to leave empty-handed, I decided to place my 
order through the Little Caesars app first, and then head 
over there, and it worked. There's the option to pay through 
the app, and the option to pay in person, and there is also a 
guest check out, that way I didn't have to set up an account 
or anything. I really wasn't in the mood to set up an account, 
or enter my credit card information into the app or whatever. 
I ordered a nicer pizza that I would ordinarily buy from 
Little Caesars.

321

What Was Originally Here?

I don't remember what was originally here
but whatever it was, I guess it must have been
interesting. There were a lot of pictures and
screenshots of this or that. I don't know what
to do with all of these photographs I'm amassing.

I took of all of the photographs, and saved them.
but I don't know what to do eventually. Where
to put them or post them.

322

Background and the needs:
		
This program is needed because there are many securities
that are difficult to trade because they are illiquid as
a result of large bid and ask spreads, or because they lack 
volume. 

The goal is to reduce spreads while increasing volume.

Another need is due to the fact that manually performing this task
is laborious and prone to error.

323

but i don't really know if i really want to deal with ONEQ. 
There is really a whole lot of bull shit on a lot of these total 
market index funds, and i really don't want to deal with a lot of them. 
stupid. stupid. I know. there's just a lot of shitty ones on the index. 
zombie ticker symbols on the index. some of them never fall off the 
index. well. i don't know. a lot of them are garbage.

I did manage to take care of a few things with my old. With my 401(k). 
and that was kind of nice. I don't know. what else to do. there were a 
few student loan, student aid, and student grant related stuff for school. 
I don't recall. exactly what the deadline is for the application period. 
I want to say that it is.

324

the needle is full of
gems and if you are
pricked, you will surely
die. don't prick yourself
don't die

try not to get yourself
killed while
you are repairing the
rips on your shirts
and repairing the
rips on your jeans
or the rips on
your pants.

325

I guess my day was okay, I did a bunch of 
stuff on the las vegas strip today, but at 
some point i had trouble finding where I parked my car.

326

If there is no overtime this week 
I kind of want to do something. I don't 
know what, but I want to do something. but 
then again. I also kind of don't want to do 
anything. I don't really know. I think about 
things that I want to do. Things that I enjoy 
doing. and sometimes I'm not really sure that 
there are any. I have this idea for a road-trip, 
and it's basically Las Vegas to Carson City to 
Salt Lake City and back.

It's the same distance as the Louisiana Road Trip 
I took back in 2022, and I remember what a disaster 
that turned out to be, but I went on a whole bunch 
since then and they just weren't as much of a disaster, 
so. I'm kind of one-way-or-another. I don't really know.

Question Number One:

Do I really want to go on a long ass drive?

Question Number Two:

Do I really want to stay in bed all weekend?

I just don't have the same kind of stamina and endurance 
I had just a few years ago. I really don't. and I really 
don't want to take any huge risks. at the same time, I'm 
just kind of not in any kind of good mood. I don't know if 
going on a long drive will alleviate that or anything.

327

Your initial [Buy/Sell] Trade ticket for [Security] has been
submitted at the following price [Limit Price] and quantity [Quantity].

Subsequent orders will be automatically generated and submitted contingent 
upon the fulfillment of the previous order, with buy limits and sell limits 
based on the Average True Range, Bollinger Band Width, and Average Directional
Index entered on the initializing ticket.

Sell orders will be generated with a limit of 	[Calculated Amount] above the previously filled ticket
Buy  orders will be generated with a limit of 	[Calculated Amount] below the previously filled ticket

[   User Input Element   [Accept and Submit]   [Override and Submit]   [Start Over]   ]

328

Think about how you
on the basis of your 
skills and your mastery
of the nonsense of being
the best of the greatest people
in the entire universe

think about how you
on the edge of the universe
how you
on the fringe of the tablecloth

and waste the best of all your
orange juice reserves

the orange juice
is very special

the orange juice
is also
old
and pale

think about the best of the taste of all
the orange juice and how

each one of your balls
is the size
of a tangerine.

329

is either of your 
testicles
individually 

the size 
of a tangerine?
or is your ballsack
when taken together 
as a whole

a ball sack the size 
of a 
tangerine?

I saw one guy kicking 
the other guy 
in a ballsack the size 
of a tangerine.

is your testicle sack 
the size 
of a 
tangerine?

330

This post is about as
sexual a post as it will
ever be and it will be
in your mind
extremely risqué and
you will tell everyone 
you know how nasty it is.

331

Step 3

[Ticker Symbol]		[Buy/Sell]		[Order Quantity]			[Limit Price]				[Ticket Status]

[	HFH.P		Buy				1				86.86					Open          ]

Step 4			
[Ticker Symbol]		[Buy/Sell]		[Order Quantity]			[Limit Price]				[Ticket Status]

[	HFH.P		Buy				1				86.86					Filled        ]

Step 5		

[Ticker Symbol]		[Buy/Sell]		[Order Quantity]			[Limit Price]				[Ticket Status]

[	HFH.P		Sell				1				86.89					Open          ]

Step 6		

[Ticker Symbol]		[Buy/Sell]		[Order Quantity]			[Limit Price]				[Ticket Status]

[	HFH.P		Sell				1				86.89					Filled        ]

Step 7		

[Ticker Symbol]		[Buy/Sell]		[Order Quantity]			[Limit Price]				[Ticket Status]

[	HFH.P		Buy				1				86.87  					Open          ]

Step 8		

[Ticker Symbol]		[Buy/Sell]		[Order Quantity]			[Limit Price]				[Ticket Status]

[	HFH.P		Buy				1				86.87  					Filled        ]

Notes: 			this sequence is based on + 00.03 to Sell orders and - 00.02 to 
                        Buy orders for first issue preferred shares for the security HFH

332

I slept for something like 3 hours and 
I feel fully rechanged. This is really weird. 
Usually I'm dead tired even if I stay asleep 
an hour before I start work, and that's 
usually a hell of a lot of hours of sleep.

333

Trying new things. Well, I want to buy a new 
computer game, but none of the ones I'm looking 
at are games that I'm familiar with, and I'm not 
even really sure that I'll enjoy them. Why or why 
would it not matter? Who knows.

334

I've decided not to go on any kind 
of road trip this week. There isn't 
any overtime, but there are other 
things that I can keep myself occupied 
with for these next few days off.

Well, I guess I spoke too soon, 
there was a short extra shift 
available. So I signed up for it.

335

I was up most of the day. I went to 
get pizza. I played Civilization 6. 
I really only play Civilization 6 as 
Phillip the Second of Spain. I left 
work early yesterday. I capped out on 
Paid Time Off, but for how long? I have 
no idea. I hope I didn't cap out for the 
year. The allocation is about 2 hours per 
week, so it's been about 40 hours I've 
used, and that sounds about right, but 
I'm surprised that I've used it all already.

336

I don't take very many pictures. 
I haven't taken very many pictures 
ever, but I guess I just haven't been 
anywhere new, or, maybe I just haven't 
thought to take any pictures of anything 
I've seen recently. The photo upload 
quality on Blogger is kind of garbage.

337

I left work early twice this week. One day I took VTO, 
and the other day I took PTO. I went to a buffet in 
Chinatown, and I ate only about 2 or 3 plates of food, and then left.

I've been feeling kind of discouraged about how much 
progress I've made paying down my credit cards, 
because I haven't really made any progress paying 
down my credit cards, but then I remembered that it's 
only been two weeks since April, so I've only been at 
it for two weeks.

338

The other day the dogs 
took my athletes foot cream, 
and I think they took it again today.

339

After setting up my phone fully, 
it seems to be working better than 
it had. This new phone seems to work 
better than my previous phone. The 
connection seems to be better than 
it was earlier, so I guess it's not 
that bad, maybe the only issue was 
setting it up.

340

How can a person have athlete's food, and. 
well, sometimes a person develops athelet's balls.
and the balls 
are in a sack 
that's the size 
of a tangerine!

341

How can a person have athlete's food, and. 
well, sometimes a person develops athelet's balls.
and the balls 
are in a sack 
that's the size 
of a tangerine!

342

Revision Notes:

D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo\ParcelTerminalDemo.java	

I have a new phone, my old phone cracked and I've gotten 
around to replacing it. I haven't changed service providers. 
It's horrible. I can barely connect my phone to anything. 
The connection is terrible. I don't know what the hell to 
do. Absolutely horrible.

343

A while ago I was donating 
stuff to the thrift store in 
an effort to get rid of anything 
that I didn't really need, or at 
least, get rid of anything I didn't 
think that I would need, and I think 
I donated a set of unopened wood-chisels. 
I didn't really need them because I really 
didn't think that I would take up wood-working 
or anything, and I'm not taking up 
wood-working or anything, but I recently 
came across a use for them, and when I 
looked for them, I couldn't find them, and 
realized that I had donated them a while back. 
I was going to use the wood-chisels to shape the 
tree in the yard. Nothing major, just chip away 
at some of the knobbing that develops when stray 
branches are removed.

I got rid of most of the stray 
branches with a hatchet, a throwing 
axe, and I bashed some of the knobs 
on the tree using a hammer.

344

This is where the
lucky ones and the
unlucky ones 

eat the oranges and
place the best of the worst

and the pomegranates
are opened up and

you like persimmons but
in my opinion, persimmons really aren't

all that great.

345

I stil don't have the slightest clue what.
That's the thing. I have no idea what I
was searching for. There was something
that I wanted to see if I forgot or not, but
I have no idea what it was or what it is that
I should be looking for.

I put in an order for a new phone,
and
I'm in the process of deleting my OKCupid account.

the issue is that the delete button doesn't work.
and so
I'm not able to delete it.

346

// resets the text color  
// formats the color of the text to be green and bold. 
// String invisible ="\ u001b 
// 38;5; + n + m + n";

347

There's something that I think I 
should take care of, but I have no 
idea what it is. I don't know what 
it is. I'm sure it will come to me later, 
but I have no idea what it is, there's 
just something that I think I'm forgetting 
right now.

348

// this is the main argument  
// formats two places to the right of the decimal  
// formats text red and bold

349

I got rid of a pile of coins, 
loose change, at the grocery store 
earlier today, I think it turned out 
to be about one dollar and fifty cents 
or so. I have work later today. This 
week I signed up for a few extra shifts, 
but there were only half-shifts available, 
and I'm kind of happy about that. I just 
haven't had a ton of energy for full-length 
extra-shifts. Even though, obviously, it's 
better to have a whole shifts pay rather 
than just a half-shifts pay, I'm not too 
sure how much I'm worried about all of that right now.

350

these are a few of the things that I like the best 
and when they are always with the next 
of the best of the worst of the nearest 
and when they come over to the end of the 
chickens feet are cooked in a box.

351

I don't really 
have much to write 
about these days.

I've been meaning to 
re-monetize my blog, 
and I did a little work 
on that, but, there is a 
lot of reviewing and stuff 
that I have to do. Most of 
the time I just erase 
whatever was there before, 
post it somewhere else, 
and then write something 
new where the old post was.

I don't really make a whole lot of 
money blogging, so it's not critically 
important that I re-monetize. The main 
issue is just making everything look 
more professional.

352

These are the things that you are thinking about
when you were sitting on the toilet
and then remembered later when you
were hanging out at the urinal.

you can make thing easier for
yourself or you could potentially
make things more difficult and
listen to what you've been doing.

I want to see things escalate in a way
that is more interesting than the way
they've currently been. I haven't

been very motivated and I think that
things are just more or less useless as
they have ever been.

it's not that my life has been uneventful
because my life is usually uneventful
I just don't really have anything to write
about. everything

seems to be a repetition of things that
have happened before, and documenting
the present is often just a reiteration of

what has happened in the past. things that
are happening now are just things that
have happened before, and are happening
again.

in so many ways i just haven't been 
particularly motivated

in so many ways i've just lost interest
in so many things.

i've been losing motivating
and i've
been losing interest.

353

five of them were 
eaten alive by the scariest monster in the 
whole wide world! it was. the alligator of evil!

// this is the demo class 
// public class ShippingCalculatorDemo
// Mamonov 
// Peterson 
// I figured out why it was there, 
// I was reusing code from the Create 
// transcript and it auto imported. 
// I have no idea why this is here.

354

I've been experiencing an 
elevated level of stress. 
I don't know what it is. The 
whole time I've been in Las Vegas 
I've been experiencing stress and 
fatigue. I really don't know what's 
causing this. I've tried to make changes 
like drinking more water, and I've noticed 
a slight improvement, but, a very very 
slight improvement. I've been drinking 
slightly less soda, but still quite a bit of it. 
I don't know what else to do.

355

As far as taking any road-trips goes, 
I haven't really planned anything or 
made any definite commitments to go on 
one. I just have that idea of a road-trip 
to Carson City then Salt Lake City and 
then back to Las Vegas.

357

I did a minimal amount of 
working on my blog today. 
I changed a few of the titles 
on the Sanford Street series, 
just a few posts where the 
title was [NUMBER] Sanford Street 
to Letters from Sanford Street # [NUMBER]. I've 
been meaning to do all of them, but it honestly 
really doesn't matter. It doesn't look like ads are 
completely removed from my blog, it just looks like 
they are limited in some way, but it isn't clear to 
me how they are restricted. It's strange that my blog 
is flagged for being adult content because most of this 
is all text. It's not like I have pornographic videos and 
pictures on here.

358

here is where we met 
the other day in the 
here is where me is 
here is where we met the 
other day when you and I  were 
living in a universe an alternate universe.

06 21 03 11 48 78 15 15

20 08 09 19 15 48 26 36
 
11 04 07 07 95 62 12 23

23 08 01 20 65 89 32 21

01 02 03 06 09 06 12 45

04 09 19 01 19 20 05 18

16 09 05 03 05 12 67 89

15 06 98 76 45 34 23 09

19 08 09 20 63 07 56 34

09 08 09 01 05 20 08 09 

19 19 08 09 20 15 85 01 

07 87 56 12 02 39 48 17

06 21 03 11 09 14 07 01

04 09 19 01 19 20 05 18

05 22 05 18 25 04 01 25 

09 19 01 03 01 20 01 19 

20 18 15 16 08 05 09 12

09 09 21 21 27 57 23 96 

79 23 15 26 37 01 98 12

and then we thought that we would 
see eachother again but we never did 
or at least. it was me who never saw you again.

359

One thing that created a bit of anxiety 
for me was the Chase Checking Account glitch 
where payments were being processed twice.

I actually didn't 
notice the issue at first.

When payday hit, I saw that my 
checking account balance went up, 
but not as much as I expected, 
especially considering how much 
overtime I worked that week. I 
figured that I had a bunch of 
outgoing payments and transfers 
since I usually schedule outgoing 
payments or transfers on a payday, 
and that it was simply due to that, 
and I really didn't look into it any further.

The other reason no alarm bells went off in my 
mind is because the transaction that was 
processed twice was approximately the same 
amount as a few transfers and payments that 
I was sure were going to process around that 
time that I made, so I really just thought 
that it was the payments and transfers that I made.

I was nevertheless stressed out because I started 
to feel that maybe I didn't really plan correctly. 
or something. Anyway, I saw a prompt by Chase about 
the double transaction glitch, and, what do you know, 
it turns out that I was a victim of the Chase Double 
Payment Processing glitch.

360

when we met 
we said to eachother 
i think that you look familiar 
to me.

09 12 15 22 05 12 15 23 05 08 05 18 01 19 19 55 88 77 12

09 06 21 03 11 15 04 21 16 20 15 04 05 12 15 23 01 25 12

07 15 04 19 01 22 05 13 05 87 65 05 12 15 23 10 39 37 12

90 05 02 06 09 01 05 12 15 23 51 52 53 56 54 48 58 36 59

05 12 15 23 05 18 25 14 18 33 20 18 42 15 18 81 10 19 13

08 09 20 20 09 14 07 01 14 01 12 12 20 09 13 05 12 15 23

I don't know what you 
thought about the new frog, but 
the new frog thought that you were 
a nice person BEFORE YOU HAD HIS LEGS FOR LUNCH!

361

// initializes the package count. 
// This is no longer being used now that the calculated items are calculated. 
// there is a point where a person might simply give up.
// final String THE_PLACEHOLDER = "PLACEHOLDER"; 
// this is used for things that
// I will calculate later, with a calculator

362

My main short term goal is to 
get my credit cards paid off before 
the end of August. This has been my 
goal since the beginning of the year, 
and I think it's a realistic goal. The 
end of August is when my student loan 
repayments start, and I don't want to 
be crushed by student loans and credit 
cards at the same time.

363

 // maybe it makes sense to be = keyboard.nextDouble();  
 // the width of the parcel  
 // the length of the parcel  
 // the weight of the parcel 
 // the dimensional weight of a package to be 
 // shipped, based on the dimensions of the package.

364

Well, I wonder if someone 
is helping me out here, but, 
who knows. I want to say 
someone is obviously helping 
me out, because something 
kind of funny just happened.

365

I want to write something 
here, but I'm not sure what 
to write, and it's not for a 
lack of things to write, it's 
just that I have no idea what 
I should write about, 
considering the number of 
things that I could write about.

367

I know that it's just cookies, but they don't know that. 
you know. it could have been anything. it could have been 
anything it really could have.

I don't really have very many opportunities 
to write down what's going on, or how things 
have been. There's just other stuff I've been 
doing. I've been playing computer games and 
stuff. tangerine

I have to set aside time to re-monetize my 
blog and get the ads back up, they've been 
taken down due to some obscenity related 
complaints, but I just haven't gotten around 
to remedying the issue.

368

I still have to finish cleaning up 
my blog. There was a signup for overtime 
that came through, but I missed it by two 
hours. This has happened a few times, but, 
I guess it's not as important as it used to 
be. I mean, I guess I don't need the overtime 
money as much as I used to. Well, that's not 
really true. I always need the overtime 
money as long as I have bills to pay.

369

I haven't had a phone break in a while, 
but a few hours ago I dropped my phone 
and the screen cracked. This is a headache.

370

Bananas
and the making of here is where
they go and then
they sell the best of the oranges
and the strawberries

cannot be more than the blueberries
there were more blueberries
and

muffins were 
made as a result.

371

There have been issues before with 
posting pictures to my blog where, 
the sizing is all messed up, and the 
picture spills out into the left column.

372

this is where the compendium 
of things is and I think that 
you were missing a 

373

still deleting old files
from my Google Drive
and cleaning things out

i want to upload some pictures
and upload some old text files
too

i think the bulk of what i
have there on my Google Drive
are music files i saved
when deleting everything
on my computer

i uploaded all of my
stuff and wiped my drive
clean

374

I got a minimum amount of 
stuff done during the week. 
I almost want to say I got 
nothing done during the week. 
I don't know. I just didn't get 
much done. I played on the computer. 
I dealt with some money orders that 
I've had sitting around, and I did a 
few things with my investments. Well,
my retirement investments anyway. I don't 
have any non-retirement money right now. I 
have to get started on my taxes, and I have 
to go donate things to the thrift store. 
I'll do that next week. 

375

right now I am very tired and I don't 
think that anything will get any better 
and things will only get more amazing. 
things will turn around for me in a major 
way and things will get better and everything 
will work out and I will thrive and I will do well. 
and I will be happy with myself. and I will be pleased 
by what I accomplished.

376

Something interesting came in the mail today; it was 
marketing mail for business checking accounts from 
Citibank and US Bank, and they were addressed to Chestnut & Hazel. 
I wouldn't mind setting up business checking accounts for Chestnut + Hazel, 
but I really don't have any steady income from Chestnut + Hazel yet.

377

I have to tell you this because
it may be
relevant to
the question

You seek to answer and it may
be what you
need to know
to satiate the
obsessions that

are eating away at your mind and
every thought
you have:
GUESS WHAT! 
BUTTER! IS!
NOT THE!
ANSWER!!!

378

when there is mail in the mailbox and 
there is new mail in the mailbox and there 
are letters that can be read and there are notices 
from where you are and where you are not. 
and you were happy with what you've done and 
how you did it and where you did it and.

379

I made an effort set up an account to self publish a book. 
It would be the Chestnut Street series. I have to take a 
look at it and see what changes I would make to the text.

It's midnight. I'm hungry, and I don't know where to go to eat.

I went to the Cannery Casino to eat at the Victory Cafe, 
but it wasn't open. Google Maps said it was open 24 Hrs, 
but I guess that wasn't accurate, so I ended up at Bourbon 
Street Bar and Grill. I had wings, but I wasn't too excited 
about them, they just seemed excessively battered, but I was 
really hungry and I'm really not sure what other options I had.

380

These are the things I think
about when I think about 
butter: well, first and foremost
butter is not what makes the
world go round. Something.
some kind of force makes
the world go round, and I 
think that the force in question
would be called momentum,
or maybe it would be called 
inertia, but whatever the force
is called, I doubt that it
is called butter, and therefore!
when people ask what force
makes the world go round
just be aware that butter is 
not the answer to that question!

381

// new instance of the Shipment class. 
// pulls Shipment class

// into the demo class.
// int theFrequentShipperIdentificationNumber;

// double theNumberOfOutsideLinerInches = 0;
// double theDimensionalWeight = 0;

Sometimes when I go out to eat I get the feeling 
that the food was microwaved after being pulled 
out of a bag from something I could have purchased 
from the frozen food section of the grocery store.

I went and got an oil change, which was something 
I've been meaning to do for a while, and when I was 
getting the oil change, the technician recommended 
that I get my transmission fluid changed, so I did 
that as well. I really don't want to spend more than 
I need to right now, but I know that I've put a hell 
of a lot of miles on my car over the last few months, 
so I need to weigh being cautious with my spending 
against the risks of unexpected car problems from 
skipping on maintenance now.

382

I have to think. I was thinking about pursuing a graduate 
certificate in Spanish Translation at UNLV. One issue is 
that out-of-state tuition would make this cost prohibitive, 
but it's possible that my time in Nevada during 2018 would 
count toward my status as a Nevada resident, this is something 
I have to look into, and I'd probably have to request records 
from the Nevada DMV.

That UTA thing was a total disaster. I'm trying to squeeze 
as much out of the experience as I can by going through the 
course material, but. Yeah, that was a real interesting way 
to flush $3,500 down the toilet.

I need to explore as many programs at as many universities as 
I can. I really would prefer an in-person program rather than 
something remote, or online. I'm still kind of hesitant to look 
at anything. I'm hesitant to pursue a different graduate program 
unless I know that it will be the right fit for me. I don't know 
if there is any possibility of heading back to Texas for one semester, 
and just taking two classes or whatever, but, who knows.

383

// user greeting for the customer
// initializes the scanner.
// System.out.println(invisible+"test area");

384

I really want to buy new pants, and 
a new belt, but I also really want to 
hold off on doing either, and yet, 
even though I really want to keep my 
spending as low as possible, I went out 
to eat earlier today and I went out for 
drinks the other day. I went out for 
drinks the other night, and it was supposed 
to be a kind of date, but, we didn't end up 
meeting up. I went to the place she wanted 
to meet up at, but she wasn't there. I waited 
for about an hour, and then went home, and 
like five minutes after I was on my way home, 
she said she was there, and that I should turn 
around and come back.

385

// /**/System.out.println(" Data for Package # 1"); // entryNumber// this number
// needs to increment depending on the number of packages. // this number needs
// to iterate depending on the number of packages.

// this line is being moved down System.out.println("Please enter the"+ red + "
// weight "+reset+"of your parcel:"); // " and the "+ red +"dimensions "+reset+
// System.out.println(" "); // I don't know what's going on here, the line won't
// skip. I know what it is, it's on the wrong line.
// keyboard.nextLine();

// System.out.println("Please enter the"+ red + " weight "+reset+"of your
// parcel:");
// double packageWeight = keyboard.nextDouble(); // this needs to be a double.
// // String packageWeight = keyboard.nextLine(); // this needs to be a double.
// // String packageWeight = keyboard.nextLine();
// keyboard.nextLine();

// Package package = new Package(packageWeight, packageLength, packageWidth,
// packageHeight);

386

That was discouraging, so I'm going to take a break from online dating. 
This is the second time I deleted, second or maybe third time I've deleted 
a dating profile in the last month. I switched accounts for some of my 
autopay expenses, and I'm kind of just waiting until the switch over becomes active.

387

Queen of the Goths

she's cute, 
and. 
she's kind of talking to herself, 
and. 
it seems like a very 
engaging conversation,
but 
maybe she's singing,
and
she doesn't have a headset on,
so
she's either singing
from memory
or
talking to herself.

388

what a nightmare. it's night time right now. 
I think that I've been putting 
this together for the past 4 hours or so.

389

I settled the account with UTA. That was a fucking pain in the ass. 
I don't know how many times I've gone over this situation on my blog, 
but I'll go over it again. I was originally awarded 10500 in student 
loans, but after withdrawing from the MSQF program, that amount was 
reduced to about 8500, these are all rough numbers but they're close 
enough, anyway, I was asked to return 2000 dollars to the University, UTA, 
and I just remitted the payment of 2000 bucks a few minutes ago. Headache. 
I really wasn't prepared for this. Anyway. I was really going to put this 
whole ordeal off for a while, but when I looked into my student loan account, 
or the account that services my student loans, I noticed that they adjusted 
the student loan amount from 10500 to 8500, so I figured since the issue that 
I was worried about most has been fixed, then I guess I'm comfortable settling 
the balance with UTA. The issue that I was afraid of was paying twice, so to 
speak, but if the loan servicer adjusted the amount due, then there is no need 
to worry about paying twice, and that's why I figured I'd settle the tab at UTA.

390

One of the issues I'm dealing with right now 
is that I have a balance due on my student 
account at the University of Texas at Arlington. 
This is because I dropped all of my classes and 
withdrew from the MSQF program. My student loan 
allocation for the Fall 2022 semester was reduced 
retroactively, and now I have to pay back one-thousand 
eight-hundred and sixty-five dollars. I was originally 
awarded about ten-thousand in student loans, but that 
award has been reduced retroactively to around eight-thousand 
three-hundred. This is a fucking nightmare.

I'm making quite a few changes to my blog. It is just 
going to be text, mostly. and pictures I'll put somewhere 
else, or I'll create a new page for photographs that I've 
accumulated over time.

391

I went to the gas station 
to get a fountain drink, 
and by the time
I get home, my soda is
gone? Where did it go?
I think I drank it all!

I went to the buffet at the Wynn and even though 
I thought that the buffet was really nice, I don't 
think that I got my money's worth, I just didn't eat 
enough. I went in the morning, around 10 AM, and it 
was really crowded, and then afterward I went driving 
around town looking for something interesting. I tend 
to take this blog in different directions and revise 
things here or there depending on my mood, and as a 
result it's changing constantly, and it keeps changing 
and it will continue to change and I'm not sure how to 
feel about that. things were going well and things were 
all about to go even better but they did not and when I 
think about where everything went they went worse than anything.

392

I'm pretty light now in terms of personal possessions. 
I'm wondering what else is sellable on Facebook Marketplace. 
I kept two hammers that I really like, they're really new, 
and they are both really well made. Well, I think that it's a 
total of three hammers that I kept, one is a jeweler's hammer. 
I'm worried about the next few months. I could potentially have 
a huge tax bill, and I have a limited number of options to reduce 
my tax liabilities before the end of the year. Maybe this is one 
of those years where I just have to eat it.

393

remember the citrus (2022)

This is where the things 
that you think that you 
remember turn out to be 
memories that you yourself invented

You enjoyed the taste of
the lemonade but really
what you drank was orange 
juice and you think that you
tasted citrus but you really enjoyed 
the taste of oranges and not 
lemons

She told you to drink from the tap
like a man, but you just really weren't 
into that, you really didn't want to drink
from the tap, you are okay drinking from
the fountain you are okay when you drink
fountain drinks but you are not okay
drinking from the tap

Lemonade does not come from
the tap, even when the tap is loaded
with lemonade,

lemonade only comes from the soda
fountain, even though lemonade is not
soda

we can be friends
actually we can't even
be friends 
you're just too fucking weird

you do weird shit and i 
don't want to be associated
with you in 
anyway

These wilted flowers shedding 
petals blissfully in the sad faced sun.
at the beach lips on both sides
of the lips on both sides of the
wilted flowers shedding raindrops
blissfully in the morning sun i want
to say something original but i can't
think of anything original to say

she was clowning on me she was
picking on me or poking fun at me
and i didn't even realize it, but I'm 
sure it was totally harmless and 
maybe even well intentioned

394

There was a minor disappointment the other day. I asked someone 
for a letter of recommendation, and she didn't want to do it. We 
met at some bar in Kentucky back in June, and we chatted, and I 
asked for her phone number and email address, stating that I might 
need a letter of recommendation at some point in the future. I sent 
her a message on LinkedIn the other day, asking for the letter of 
recommendation and she basically isn't familiar enough with me to 
really make any kind of recommendation one way or another. She also 
asked me not to ask her again.

395

I did get a letter showing that my registration for an 
Assumed Name has been recorded with the Tarrant County Clerk. 
The Registration for my copyrights for some of my Letters from 
Sanford Street haven't been dealt with by the U.S. Copyright Office, 
and my Assumed Name registrations haven't been recorded with the 
Secretary of State of Texas, and, other government related bullshit, 
well, the Town of Panama Called me about a speeding ticket that was 
issued several months back, they weren't aggressive or anything, but 
they just told me that I can pay the ticket over the phone, so I did 
that. I tried paying it online, but I received an error message, and 
I wasn't able to pay it online, so I sent the Town of Panama, or maybe 
I sent it to the County of LeFlore, but I sent a letter with screenshots 
of the issue, or a printout of screenshots of the issue.

396

I did something interesting the other day, well, a few things actually, 
I sold additional stuff on Facebook, the previous day I sold a sledgehammer, 
axe, and pickaxe, I'm really not sure why I bought those things, but yesterday 
I sold eight hammers, smaller ones than the ones I sold on Facebook a few days 
before. Another thing that I did that I would say is interesting is that I bought 
US Treasury bonds. Well, US Treasury Bills actually. There are a number of 
different securities that you can buy from the US Treasury, there are savings 
bonds, and those are why I was setting up the TreasuryDirect account, it seems 
that I can only buy US Treasury Savings Bonds through the TreasuryDirect account, 
but anyway, the other day I bought US Treasury Bills through my Fidelity account.

397

This is where the things 
that you think that you 
remember turn out to be 
memories that you yourself invented

You enjoyed the taste of
the lemonade but really
what you drank was orange 
juice and you think that you
tasted citrus but you really enjoyed 
the taste of oranges and not 
lemons

She told you to drink from the tap
like a man, but you just really weren't 
into that, you really didn't want to drink
from the tap, you are okay drinking from
the fountain you are okay when you drink
fountain drinks but you are not okay
drinking from the tap

Lemonade does not come from
the tap, even when the tap is loaded
with lemonade,

lemonade only comes from the soda
fountain, even though lemonade is not
soda

we can be friends
actually we can't even
be friends 
you're just too fucking weird

you do weird shit and i 
don't want to be associated
with you in 
anyway

These wilted flowers shedding 
petals blissfully in the sad faced sun.
at the beach lips on both sides
of the lips on both sides of the
wilted flowers shedding raindrops
blissfully in the morning sun i want
to say something original but i can't
think of anything original to say

she was clowning on me she was
picking on me or poking fun at me
and i didn't even realize it, but I'm 
sure it was totally harmless and 
maybe even well intentioned

398

I went to the DMV, and they don't take walk-ins anymore, 
everything is by appointment only, and this works, because 
I set up my appointment already, and it's for next month, and 
I have everything I need, the emissions inspection, my insurance 
has been changed to Nevada, I have documents with my new address 
on it, and, I had the VIN inspection performed. Is there anything 
else that I need to get done? I don't think so. I did set up a 
TreasuryDirect account, or, I mean, I got the process started. It 
isn't as simple as setting up an online account, setting up the online 
account is only part of the process, the other part of the process is 
mailing in another form that needs to be reviewed by your bank. I went 
to Citibank on Aliante Parkway. One of the strange things about the 
Dallas / Fort Work area is that I don't remember any Citibank branches 
in the area.

399

"remember the citrus" (2022)

This is where the things 
that you think that you 
remember turn out to be 
memories that you yourself invented

You enjoyed the taste of
the lemonade but really
what you drank was orange 
juice and you think that you
tasted citrus but you really enjoyed 
the taste of oranges and not 
lemons

She told you to drink from the tap
like a man, but you just really weren't 
into that, you really didn't want to drink
from the tap, you are okay drinking from
the fountain you are okay when you drink
fountain drinks but you are not okay
drinking from the tap

Lemonade does not come from
the tap, even when the tap is loaded
with lemonade,

lemonade only comes from the soda
fountain, even though lemonade is not
soda

we can be friends
actually we can't even
be friends 
you're just too fucking weird

you do weird shit and i 
don't want to be associated
with you in 
anyway

These wilted flowers shedding 
petals blissfully in the sad faced sun.
at the beach lips on both sides
of the lips on both sides of the
wilted flowers shedding raindrops
blissfully in the morning sun i want
to say something original but i can't
think of anything original to say

she was clowning on me she was
picking on me or poking fun at me
and i didn't even realize it, but I'm 
sure it was totally harmless and 
maybe even well intentioned

400

My schedule for tomorrow, Monday morning, is to 
head to the DMV to get my Driver's License, and 
Vehicle Registration complete, and I was also 
informed that I need a VIN inspection to be performed, 
which is something that I was told while getting my 
Emissions inspection performed. The guy at the Emissions 
inspection place informed me that the number of times a 
vehicle has been registered refers to when a vehicle is 
purchased, and when the vehicles registration is renewed, 
so if a person owns a car for 3 years or whatever, there's 
the original registration, as well as two subsequent renewal 
registrations, which would count for a total of 3 registrations. 
Anyway, after I get that done, there is some paperwork that I 
need taken care of at the bank to open an account with the U.S. 
Treasury to buy savings bonds. I'm not sure how useful setting 
up this account will be, but I think that I'll go ahead and do it.

401

I went to the buffet with my mom earlier, and we just got back. 
The fortune cookie said: Opportunity always knocks at the least 
opportune time, and I thought to myself: that's almost always true, 
but how do I overcome that tendency for things, for opportunities 
to be available when I really can't capitalize on them? and what 
opportunities should I be on the lookout for, and be prepared for?

I'm reading spam messages from one of these bogus dating websites 
I signed up for. It's one of those dating sites where you have to 
pay per message. The obvious thing is that I'm getting tons of 
incoming messages, and I doubt that these women are really paying 
a dollar a message to reach out to my incomplete profile. If they 
were, then I'm making that website a whole bunch of money with my 
incomplete profile.

402

Valentine's Day in October (2022)

but what
is there
to do now
that you are bored
and what
can you tell me
now that you
have nothing
else to say

and try sending
me a candy bar
and try sending me
a chocolate
bar and
try sending me a greeting
card and try sending
me something romantic
and try sending me something
that I might like
and try sending me
something that might have
meaning to you
and try telling me
something

try telling my something
that I didn't know before
and try saying
something to me
that would

flatter me
and try flattering me
try getting me to
get interested in you

and try getting me to
want to see what
you are having
for a snack
and what fruits are out
of season.

you know what my favorite color is!
and you know what color
your favorite color is
and you know who my favorite person
is and you know who 
your favorite person is!

and this is what I've been wanting
you to say to me this
entire time and you
just haven't come around to
saying it to me.

you really
can't tell me
that everything
is bad right now
because I know
that you're happy

you can't tell me that you
are unhappy because
I know what you like
and I know what 

makes
you 

happy and
I know what pleases
you and I am aware
of your likes and
dislikes.

Some
of the things
that you like are
kind of odd
and
some of the things
you like
are kind of strange
and some of the things
you like are
acquired tastes

and some of the
problems that
you get yourself
into over and
over are things
that you could
refrain from
getting yourself
into.

i had no idea
that someone had
a crush
on you
and i had no idea
someone was somewhat
obsessed
with you and i had
no idea that the feelings
were true and genuine
and i had no idea
that someone would
ever be attracted
to you and i had
no idea that jealousy
was an issue
that you would
have to deal with

she really liked you
and
you didn't realize it
and
you seemed to think
that
everything was not
what
it seemed and you seemed
to
imagine that you were
in 
control when really you
were
something of a puppet

do you like being
back there do you
like being back where
you were and did
you like visiting other
parts of the country
and did you like seeing
places that you've never
seen before and do you
remember what it was
like to be here and do
you think that you'll
ever do that again
and do you think that
you will ever do that

again 

and do you feel
that the rest is more
interesting and do you
think that the rest
of the world is rounder

but I'm not sure if I ran into
you at the Pizza Parlor and
you pointed out to me that the
toppings are beneath the cheese
or if the cheese is placed on top
of the toppings the bartender
asked me to leave and I'm 
really not sure why

i don't know if it's because i missed
you when i most definitely should have
noticed you and 
i don't know if i missed you when
i kind of set myself on a different path
and i don't know what the hell was
going on there
and i don't know if I forgot to
wash my hands before eating
and the
pizza seemed to arrive sooner
than i expected.

she actually really liked
you and it's obvious
that you really cared about
her even though she was
obviously a trouble maker
and she clearly would 
make life difficult for you
if she didn't get what she
wanted from you and now
you are out of college and
now you are lonely and now
you have to start all over again

an update to how things
are going right now. again
it seems I'm being demonetized
for something on my blog. I'm
getting rid of the suspected content
but there really wasn't anything
specific pointed out. and so
I'm going around deleting what
could be offensive.

it was weird. before i left she
came over and asked me to
take her out for dinner, and
i had been wanting to take her
out for dinner for a while. we
went out a few times. i don't 
think that she really liked me.
maybe she did, but i always
felt that she felt that she had
a better option, or that she liked
someone else more. sometimes
i'd be somewhere in the neighborhood
and then BANG she was there too.

we went to dinner. she came over
and asked me to take her out
to dinner, and we got into kind of
an argument when we were there.

and now the Nevada DMV website
is down, it's actually down and the
whole department is actually taking
time off until the issue is resolved.
so, even if I new what documents to
bring to a walk-in, i couldn't even
go if i wanted to because the offices
are closed.

i'm spending additional time cleaning up things here and
it just never seems to end there are so many
dirty things here that are not appropriate for the rules. the
rules
say that this stuff is not
okay
it is not okay to have yourself saying
and writing what you are saying and writing about

i went all the way across
town to go to a buffet called
imperial sushi and seafood.
it was a long drive. the food
was really nice, and, for 36
bucks it was worth the money,
but the drive was a nightmare.
maybe i just haven't ever been 
used to rush hour traffic. I don't
know why.

403

What the hell opportunity should I be on 
the lookout for? I'm thinking that I really 
want as much overtime as I can get these next 
few months, and I really think that overtime 
opportunities are the opportunities that I 
should be looking out for. When I think about 
other opportunities that just didn't happen at the 
right time, graduate school was one of those 
opportunities that just didn't coincide with the 
optimal time period in my life to be going to graduate 
school. I did just get out of the mental health institution, 
and things were just difficult all around. Then there was the 
opportunity to get into the software developer program at Amazon, 
and for some reason there was just always something else that 
popped up, usually just overtime opportunities.

There is something that I found that I might actually be 
interested in using some of the software development skills 
for, I might be interested in using some of my software development 
skills to convert my blog entries into integer sequences that I can 
post on OeisWiki or the OEIS Wiki. I vaguely remember how to do this, 
but it's something like, when the code comes across a certain letter, 
or character, it returns a specific integer, but there were other 
things that I remember that I think I can do, like, I think I'm able 
to turn images into integer sequences.

I'm trying to think. I did look up the subject of DanishCookieUXorious 
while I was clearing out my old bookmarks, and this was interesting 
because I really remember her being blonde, and for a minute I wanted 
to look up that poem I wrote about the bartender on Collins. I could 
have sworn. It happens over and over again. I could have sworn that 
person was blonde.

This free time that I'm having is an opportunity, free time is always 
an opportunity that's. It's the kind of opportunity that I'm unfamiliar 
with capitalizing on. What do I do?

404

Valentine's Day in October

but what
is there
to do now
that you are bored
and what
can you tell me
now that you
have nothing
else to say

and try sending
me a candy bar
and try sending me
a chocolate
bar and
try sending me a greeting
card and try sending
me something romantic
and try sending me something
that I might like
and try sending me
something that might have
meaning to you
and try telling me
something

try telling my something
that I didn't know before
and try saying
something to me
that would

flatter me
and try flattering me
try getting me to
get interested in you

and try getting me to
want to see what
you are having
for a snack
and what fruits are out
of season.

you know what my favorite color is!
and you know what color
your favorite color is
and you know who my favorite person
is and you know who 
your favorite person is!

and this is what I've been wanting
you to say to me this
entire time and you
just haven't come around to
saying it to me.

you really
can't tell me
that everything
is bad right now
because I know
that you're happy

you can't tell me that you
are unhappy because
I know what you like
and I know what 

makes
you 

happy and
I know what pleases
you and I am aware
of your likes and
dislikes.

Some
of the things
that you like are
kind of odd
and
some of the things
you like
are kind of strange
and some of the things
you like are
acquired tastes

and some of the
problems that
you get yourself
into over and
over are things
that you could
refrain from
getting yourself
into.

i had no idea
that someone had
a crush
on you
and i had no idea
someone was somewhat
obsessed
with you and i had
no idea that the feelings
were true and genuine
and i had no idea
that someone would
ever be attracted
to you and i had
no idea that jealousy
was an issue
that you would
have to deal with

she really liked you
and
you didn't realize it
and
you seemed to think
that
everything was not
what
it seemed and you seemed
to
imagine that you were
in 
control when really you
were
something of a puppet

do you like being
back there do you
like being back where
you were and did
you like visiting other
parts of the country
and did you like seeing
places that you've never
seen before and do you
remember what it was
like to be here and do
you think that you'll
ever do that again
and do you think that
you will ever do that

again 

and do you feel
that the rest is more
interesting and do you
think that the rest
of the world is rounder

but I'm not sure if I ran into
you at the Pizza Parlor and
you pointed out to me that the
toppings are beneath the cheese
or if the cheese is placed on top
of the toppings the bartender
asked me to leave and I'm 
really not sure why

i don't know if it's because i missed
you when i most definitely should have
noticed you and 
i don't know if i missed you when
i kind of set myself on a different path
and i don't know what the hell was
going on there
and i don't know if I forgot to
wash my hands before eating
and the
pizza seemed to arrive sooner
than i expected.

she actually really liked
you and it's obvious
that you really cared about
her even though she was
obviously a trouble maker
and she clearly would 
make life difficult for you
if she didn't get what she
wanted from you and now
you are out of college and
now you are lonely and now
you have to start all over again

an update to how things
are going right now. again
it seems I'm being demonetized
for something on my blog. I'm
getting rid of the suspected content
but there really wasn't anything
specific pointed out. and so
I'm going around deleting what
could be offensive.

it was weird. before i left she
came over and asked me to
take her out for dinner, and
i had been wanting to take her
out for dinner for a while. we
went out a few times. i don't 
think that she really liked me.
maybe she did, but i always
felt that she felt that she had
a better option, or that she liked
someone else more. sometimes
i'd be somewhere in the neighborhood
and then BANG she was there too.

we went to dinner. she came over
and asked me to take her out
to dinner, and we got into kind of
an argument when we were there.

and now the Nevada DMV website
is down, it's actually down and the
whole department is actually taking
time off until the issue is resolved.
so, even if I new what documents to
bring to a walk-in, i couldn't even
go if i wanted to because the offices
are closed.

i'm spending additional time cleaning up things here and
it just never seems to end there are so many
dirty things here that are not appropriate for the rules. the
rules
say that this stuff is not
okay
it is not okay to have yourself saying
and writing what you are saying and writing about

i went all the way across
town to go to a buffet called
imperial sushi and seafood.
it was a long drive. the food
was really nice, and, for 36
bucks it was worth the money,
but the drive was a nightmare.
maybe i just haven't ever been 
used to rush hour traffic. I don't
know why.

405

I think that I have everything I need to get set 
up with a driver's license and vehicle registration 
in Nevada. I needed statements from a bank or credit 
card, and I have that now, I had to print them up, so 
I went to the UPS store, but they wanted quite a bit 
of money to print them. Like five bucks, so I went to 
the library instead. It was still more than I wanted 
to pay, but it was two dollars total, one to renew my 
library card, and another dollar to print the documents 
I needed.

I feel funny, that I pinch pennies with certain things, 
but I spend money on some of my bad habits. I got a letter 
from Coppell, Texas. It wasn't anything Texas related. 
Strange. I don't know what was going on those last few months 
in Texas, but I swear, everything was spiraling down the 
shitter. It really was. Everything was really spiraling 
down the shitter. Nearly everyone I came across, or, 95 
percent, seemed to be in a mood to start some kind of an argument.

406

what could I be doing right now? i can't really 
think of anything, and I don't really want to rush 
into anything. I have time, and I should be using 
it for something, but what?

407

I have most of everything that I need to complete 
my change of residence from Texas to Nevada, and 
to request a Nevada Driver's License and to register 
my vehicle in Nevada. The main thing that helped me 
was an account that I set up with Bank of America 
on a whim, just a savings account. Like I said, I 
set it up on a whim, and I'm not sure why I set 
it up, but the statement cycle just finished, most 
of my other accounts have statement cycles that 
would end later in the month, and so, if I were 
to have waited for any of the other accounts 
to issue a new statement with my updated address, 
it would probably be another week. The issue that 
I'm having, right now, however, is that the Nevada 
DMV website is not working. It's down or something. 
It's not loading.

408

that was a garbage kind of a thing a 
kind of disaster kind of a nightmare 
a kind of worst than anything a kind of 
thing that didn't go well a kind of horse 
that cannot be ridden. a kind of donkey.

409

What was the first issue that I was facing when 
it came to graduate school? Group work, and group 
projects. I just really hate doing them, and they're 
rarely ever a collaborative effort. Most of the time 
there's this dynamic of establishing a pecking order. 
I don't want to make a contribution if I'm just going 
to be discredited for any work that I do. In this case, 
the person that I was originally assigned to work with. 
She was positioning herself in a way where, I would basically 
work on something, and I would have to run it by her first, 
and she would either say yes or no on it, and I thought that 
was shitty, like, fuck that, why doesn't she just do all the 
work, and I have the final say on it.

410

This was back from UTA. 
I still really do not 
like doing group work.

There was a group project for MIS 764
and. well. there is a group project for MIS 764 
and you know. it's something that's going on right now.
but I still really wish that I could be working 
independently.

411

Valentine's Day in October (2022)

but what
is there
to do now
that you are bored
and what
can you tell me
now that you
have nothing
else to say

and try sending
me a candy bar
and try sending me
a chocolate
bar and
try sending me a greeting
card and try sending
me something romantic
and try sending me something
that I might like
and try sending me
something that might have
meaning to you
and try telling me
something

try telling my something
that I didn't know before
and try saying
something to me
that would

flatter me
and try flattering me
try getting me to
get interested in you

and try getting me to
want to see what
you are having
for a snack
and what fruits are out
of season.

you know what my favorite color is!
and you know what color
your favorite color is
and you know who my favorite person
is and you know who 
your favorite person is!

and this is what I've been wanting
you to say to me this
entire time and you
just haven't come around to
saying it to me.

you really
can't tell me
that everything
is bad right now
because I know
that you're happy

you can't tell me that you
are unhappy because
I know what you like
and I know what 

makes
you 

happy and
I know what pleases
you and I am aware
of your likes and
dislikes.

Some
of the things
that you like are
kind of odd
and
some of the things
you like
are kind of strange
and some of the things
you like are
acquired tastes

and some of the
problems that
you get yourself
into over and
over are things
that you could
refrain from
getting yourself
into.

i had no idea
that someone had
a crush
on you
and i had no idea
someone was somewhat
obsessed
with you and i had
no idea that the feelings
were true and genuine
and i had no idea
that someone would
ever be attracted
to you and i had
no idea that jealousy
was an issue
that you would
have to deal with

she really liked you
and
you didn't realize it
and
you seemed to think
that
everything was not
what
it seemed and you seemed
to
imagine that you were
in 
control when really you
were
something of a puppet

do you like being
back there do you
like being back where
you were and did
you like visiting other
parts of the country
and did you like seeing
places that you've never
seen before and do you
remember what it was
like to be here and do
you think that you'll
ever do that again
and do you think that
you will ever do that

again 

and do you feel
that the rest is more
interesting and do you
think that the rest
of the world is rounder

but I'm not sure if I ran into
you at the Pizza Parlor and
you pointed out to me that the
toppings are beneath the cheese
or if the cheese is placed on top
of the toppings the bartender
asked me to leave and I'm 
really not sure why

i don't know if it's because i missed
you when i most definitely should have
noticed you and 
i don't know if i missed you when
i kind of set myself on a different path
and i don't know what the hell was
going on there
and i don't know if I forgot to
wash my hands before eating
and the
pizza seemed to arrive sooner
than i expected.

she actually really liked
you and it's obvious
that you really cared about
her even though she was
obviously a trouble maker
and she clearly would 
make life difficult for you
if she didn't get what she
wanted from you and now
you are out of college and
now you are lonely and now
you have to start all over again

an update to how things
are going right now. again
it seems I'm being demonetized
for something on my blog. I'm
getting rid of the suspected content
but there really wasn't anything
specific pointed out. and so
I'm going around deleting what
could be offensive.

it was weird. before i left she
came over and asked me to
take her out for dinner, and
i had been wanting to take her
out for dinner for a while. we
went out a few times. i don't 
think that she really liked me.
maybe she did, but i always
felt that she felt that she had
a better option, or that she liked
someone else more. sometimes
i'd be somewhere in the neighborhood
and then BANG she was there too.

we went to dinner. she came over
and asked me to take her out
to dinner, and we got into kind of
an argument when we were there.

and now the Nevada DMV website
is down, it's actually down and the
whole department is actually taking
time off until the issue is resolved.
so, even if I new what documents to
bring to a walk-in, i couldn't even
go if i wanted to because the offices
are closed.

i'm spending additional time cleaning up things here and
it just never seems to end there are so many
dirty things here that are not appropriate for the rules. the
rules
say that this stuff is not
okay
it is not okay to have yourself saying
and writing what you are saying and writing about

i went all the way across
town to go to a buffet called
imperial sushi and seafood.
it was a long drive. the food
was really nice, and, for 36
bucks it was worth the money,
but the drive was a nightmare.
maybe i just haven't ever been 
used to rush hour traffic. I don't
know why.

412

I should probably just forget about graduate 
school altogether. I don't want to be in a 
position where, the only thing I do is spend 
all of my time working for someone else, or 
doing someone else's work, pay tuition and 
shit for doing so, and in the process get 
discredited for any work that I do.

413

These things have not been here 
the whole time, and they have 
not been the best of the best, and 
they have not been the sticks of the butter.

She asked me to send a photograph
of me, stroking a stick of butter, and
I had to tell the girl that it wasn't
really what she was after, and she
really did not want me to send her
a photograph
of me stroking a stick of butter.

What she really wanted was a video
of me making a duck bill with my hand
and sticking my duck bill hand into
a bowl of butter, sticks of butter
are not the answer!

Places that I think about. 
I might not see them again, 
but places that I've been to, 
that I might not see again, that 
I think about. Gallup, New Mexico, 
Somerville, Tennessee, and 
La Vergne, Tennessee.

and while some people wish upon a 
star, it's totally possible that I would
have to wish upon a stick of butter
and tell people that the butter, that
praying to a stick of butter, that
wishing upon a stick of butter is 
not the solution to the
it's not the solution to whatever issue
you are having.

414

I bought a carton of eggnog and drank it all. 
I'm kind of just hanging out in my car and I'm 
probably going to go back in and get something else. 
There's nothing to do at home, but I'm not bored to the 
point that I really want to go prowl the streets. I think 
that I've taken care of most of the stuff, the preliminary 
stuff related to relocating, I have to change my addresses 
in my accounts first, then once I have statements, then I 
can go to the Nevada DMV to request a Nevada Driver's 
License, and then I can request Nevada Vehicle Registration.

415

Yeah, I really don't know what to do. 
I don't have any specific plans for the 
future, and maybe I should just leave it 
that way. Maybe I should just go with the 
flow until something comes up, or an 
opportunity comes up. 

These are basically the things I need in Life to Eat the
butter, but I already established that 
Butter is not the answer, and
yet you did not listen to me.

Stay where the people are rather than
going to that place where the invisible
people are. That's where the nest is and
where the birds go.

416

Yeah, I really don't know what to do. I don't have 
any specific plans for the future, and maybe I should 
just leave it that way. Maybe I should just go with the 
flow until something comes up, or an opportunity comes up.

417

Well, I guess I can think of today as the 
date that I've moved to Las Vegas. Today is October 8th, 2022

418

Postcards from Tennessee # 17 & Butter is not the Answer # 17

but maybe these are where there 
are things that are not things that will 
not go well.

419

Postcards from Tennessee # 17 & 

system dot out dot print line:

i'll have to come back around to this.

system dot out dot print line 

sincerely comma kenneth

420

when life gives you grapes you 
  well, you um, 
  you know probably won't 
    be able to make lemonade or anything.

https://dmv.nv.gov/newresident.htm

so, you know lemonade is of the table 
        for you.
                when life.
                        gives you grapes!

421

Objectives:

Copyrights:                 innocuous posts 
                            Letters from Sanford Street
                            #DanishCookieUxorious
                            Notes from Arlington, Texas

Patents:                    Fermentation Apparatus
                            Distillation Apparatus

Trademarks:                 Chestnut + Hazel
                            Chestnut & Hazel
                            Chestnut and Hazel

Research:                   Electives
                            Patent and Trademark Process
                            Selling Stuff Online / E-Commerce / Contemporary Verbiage of the Same

Tasks:                      Clean Up Google Photos

422

Could I do certain things without going back to college? sure, but, I have no idea how I would do them.

423

|| = ||    |||||   |||| ∥  ∥  ∥
 
424

IxD = Interaction Design, from this diagram, it 
looks like it's part of the overall User Experience design process. or something.

Charles Babbage = computer mechanical computer calculator 
calculates addition and subtraction

|| = A Character denoting parallel lines

open access = SPARC / FAIR / Creative Commons / has to do with copyright licensing / or some 
kind of principles related to research and access to copyrighted materials.

stock photographs = 
but here are 
where the wild animals are 
doing animal things 
where they say to themselves:
we 
        are 
                animals!

425

What the hell was I just now thinking about doing. continue cleaning up and 
editing the blog. oh I remember. Clean out google photos.

426

There was something that I needed to do, or that I was thinking of doing 
tomorrow, but for some reason it just slipped my mind. / #DanishCookieUXorious / I'm not going to stylize the lettering the way she does.

427

What else do I need to do? Well, as far as the Blog goes: I think that 
I'm going to Archive anything that has already been submitted for copyright registration. So. the reflections from chestnut street series. when I come across those posts. I'll re-title them as archived content. or whatever.

428

The following is an old poem of mine that I wrote a while back. This is 
from the Chestnut + Hazel archive, and I honestly found it very funny, but, also very sad and depressing as well. I don't know what I was thinking about when I wrote this poem. I really don't. I really think that it's funny. Right now I'm working on just cleaning up my blog and that's pretty much it.

429

Porn Videos

I'm thinking about creating a new genre of adult films.
Basically they will involve normeenas and gorblanas
engaging in shorblanification of their adamantios moogies.

It will be so nasty, that search engines will not run ads
involving normeenas and gorblanas doing anything at
all, even regular stuff like fishing and flying kites because

The association that people will have with normeenas and
gorblanas will be inherently pornographic, and the acts that
they engage in will be so disgusting that there will even be

Congressional hearings, all on C-Span, discussing the prospect
of regulating the acts that normeenas and gorblanas engage
in. Senators will run on platforms to regulate the normeenas

and gorblanas. Judges will be appointed who are strictly
opposed to sexual relationships between normeenas and
gorlanas. Anti-miscegenation legislation will be on the dockets

of every legislative body to restrict how normeenas and
gorblanas interact. Adoption agencies will be prohibited
from facilitating the adoption of progeny from these unions.

No one will be able to adopt a normeena-gorblana child.
Normeena-gorblana children who are not adopted will grow
up on the streets, selling teleomarkinites and shamdoobies

to make ends meet. They will steal mammyonography from
the adult bookshops and resell them at the swap meet and
flea market and on amazon and ebay and craigslist and letgo.

The normeena-gorblana rights commission will fight the 
oppression of the people, but the commission's funding will
come primarily from the adult film industry, and they will

not be taken seriously, or they will be seen as perpetuation
the perversions of the normeena-gorblana fetishists. A new
political party will emerge to protect the normeenas, and a

separate party will emerge to protect the gorblanas, and new
adult films will feature dirty talk between the two parties and
hardcore magazine will be sold, but buyers will need a permit

from the decency agency in order to buy them. A test will be
administered to see whether or not a person qualifies, only the
most sane and normal people will be allowed to but these books.

430

It's hot, and I'm fucking tired. 
I went out to eat, just fish and 
chips like I usually eat when I go 
out to eat. What the hell was I 
thinking about? I have to drop off 
my mail at the post office.

431

there was a woman at the post office 
and she said to me 
she asked me if 

i knew how to lick stamps.
if i was good.
at 
licking stamps?

how would I know that?
how would I know if I'm good at licking  
stamps?

What the hell do I have to do right now?

432

idea for a feature for customer 
relationship management application / vernacular localization / contingent upon occupation / professional 
or occupation based localization / for example / cosmetics / pharmaceuticals / beverages / agriculture / munitions / petrochemical / energy

433

maybe you are eating 
more frogs than you were 
eating other things maybe 
you were eating snails and  
well if you were they I'm sure 
that you know what it means to be 
hungry for more for more snails for more things to eat!

idea for a feature for customer relationship management software or 
application / verbiage and dialect localization / contingent upon occupation / professional or 
occupation based localization / for example / cosmetics / pharmaceuticals / beverages / agriculture / munitions / petrochemical / energy

434

Objectives

Copyrights:                      (x) #DanishCookieUXorious
                                 (x) innocuous posts                         
                                 Letters from Sanford Street
                                 Notes from Arlington, Texas

Patents:                        Envelope Design 

Trademarks:                     Chestnut + Hazel
                                Chestnut & Hazel
                                Chestnut and Hazel

435

I'm glad the weekend is 
just a few hours away. 
it's hot.

the world burns the world 
the atmosphere is starting 
to turn into a kind of oven 
and we will all be cooked!

436

It was fried and that is just 
the way it is when things are cooked 
they are turned into food and have they 
been cooked or not have they 
been turned into a kind of food or have 
they not been cooked?

437

I think about times in my life where 
I'm going through the kinds of things I'm 
going through right now. I don't know how to 
describe how it's different this time, but it 
is different. It's different because things are 
confusing; I'm confused about how to deal with; 
I'm confused about how to move forward, and I'm 
confused about what to do next, but things aren't 
really all that bleak right now, things really aren't 
all that hopeless. Things are just confusing. I just 
really don't know what to do next.

438

maybe there is something else out there 
for you. something that you can do 
you are too dumb for this!

439

do you really think 
that I am too dumb for this?

440

no, i do not think you are too 
dumb for this.

441

I think that I'm just going to operate 
under the assumption that Nevada is where 
I'm going to be for now, and I'll just go 
through with getting a Nevada Driver's 
License, and Nevada Plates.

442

fabio was 
at the grocery store
his hair flowing
and his tits were
perkier than ever
he reached for a
stick of land o' lakes
and i told him
straight up
fabio
butter
is not the answer
and he said to me
a suave as ever
that he couldn't believe 
that butter is not the answer.

443

I keep coming across this 
poem called valentines day in october.

444

fabio was 
at the grocery store
his hair flowing
and his tits were
perkier than ever
he reached for a
stick of land o' lakes
and i told him
straight up
fabio
butter
is not the answer
and he said to me
a suave as ever
that he couldn't believe 
that butter is not the answer.

445

i did get back on the dating
apps today
and i'm actually not even telling
the truth in this case
but i've already had tons of
flirtation bots 
hitting me up
believe me
i know what this
woman is up to
she's the kind of woman
who puts butter on
her pancakes
but a woman who
puts butter on her
pancakes is not the
answer
and butter
is still never the
fucking answer.

446

is there anything 
else you would 
like to tell me?

447

no, you will find out 
the hard way!

448

what do you mean by that?

449

you can search the whole world
for the fucking answer
but
butter
is not the fucking answer.

there are so many questions in life,
and one of those
questions might be
whether or not
butter is the answer.
butter is not the answer.

450

You can see what the
majority of us see and 
you can tell me what you
are looking for, but most 
of the things that we are 
looking for are irrelevant to
the objective we are
trying to accomplish,
and these are not what
the people want, and these
are not what the people
are thinking of.

451

what people really want
and what people are really 
thinking about
is that butter. is. the answer to
all of the problems of
the human condition,
but really,
butter,
is never the answer.

452

I don't want you 
to tell anyone
this because it gives 
us a competitive advantage
over the competition, and we
want to have an advantage 
over the competition
because they
are incompetent, and do

not deserve to defeat us
in this highly competitive
environment.
Well? What it
it that I want to tell you
that I don't want 
the competition
to be aware of?
It's this, and this alone:
BUTTER IS NOT THE ANSWER!

453

I'm thinking. I have no idea 
what I should be doing right now.

454

but what
is there
to do now
that you are bored
and what
can you tell me
now that you
have nothing
else to say

455

and try sending
me a candy bar
and try sending me
a chocolate
bar and
try sending me a greeting
card and try sending
me something romantic
and try sending me something
that I might like
and try sending me
something that might have
meaning to you
and try telling me
something

456

try telling my something
that I didn't know before
and try saying
something to me
that would

457

flatter me
and try flattering me
try getting me to
get interested in you

and try getting me to
want to see what
you are having
for a snack
and what fruits are out
of season.

458

you know what my favorite color is!
and you know what color
your favorite color is
and you know who my favorite person
is and you know who 
your favorite person is!

and this is what I've been wanting
you to say to me this
entire time and you
just haven't come around to
saying it to me.

459

you really
can't tell me
that everything
is bad right now
because I know
that you're happy

you can't tell me that you
are unhappy because
I know what you like
and I know what 

makes
you 

happy and
I know what pleases
you and I am aware
of your likes and
dislikes.

460

Some
of the things
that you like are
kind of odd
and
some of the things
you like
are kind of strange
and some of the things
you like are
acquired tastes

and some of the
problems that
you get yourself
into over and
over are things
that you could
refrain from
getting yourself
into.

461

i had no idea
that someone had
a crush
on you
and i had no idea
someone was somewhat
obsessed
with you and i had
no idea that the feelings
were true and genuine
and i had no idea
that someone would
ever be attracted
to you and i had
no idea that jealousy
was an issue
that you would
have to deal with

she really liked you
and
you didn't realize it
and
you seemed to think
that
everything was not
what
it seemed and you seemed
to
imagine that you were
in 
control when really you
were
something of a puppet

462

do you like being
back there do you
like being back where
you were and did
you like visiting other
parts of the country
and did you like seeing
places that you've never
seen before and do you
remember what it was
like to be here and do
you think that you'll
ever do that again
and do you think that
you will ever do that

again 

and do you feel
that the rest is more
interesting and do you
think that the rest
of the world is rounder

but I'm not sure if I ran into
you at the Pizza Parlor and
you pointed out to me that the
toppings are beneath the cheese
or if the cheese is placed on top
of the toppings the bartender
asked me to leave and I'm 
really not sure why

i don't know if it's because i missed
you when i most definitely should have
noticed you and 
i don't know if i missed you when
i kind of set myself on a different path
and i don't know what the hell was
going on there
and i don't know if I forgot to
wash my hands before eating
and the
pizza seemed to arrive sooner
than i expected.

463

I just applied for a position here in Las Vegas, and, 
I'll continue to look for work. I don't think that I'll 
be heading back to Arlington, it just seems like it's really 
not going to happen. I'm putting a few other things on the 
back burner for now. Like continuing to work on Chestnut + Hazel, 
more specifically, business registration aspects of it. I tried 
looking for positions at Amazon, but there was nothing available 
in the area. I was thinking that, since it's somewhat easy to 
transfer between locations with Amazon, that maybe I'd get in 
at a location here, and then, if something were to bring me back 
to Dallas / Fort Worth, that maybe I'd transfer back there. There's 
just nothing really in Dallas / Fort Worth, though, other than college, 
and even that was kind of falling apart. 

I did file a copyright for a few of my posts from the Letters from 
Sanford Street series, I used the "Online Literary Works" form, and 
it was somewhat more involved than using the Standard Registration 
process, but it does allow me to have claims on each individual post, 
rather than having a single claim one gigantic series. In this specific 
case, even though there is a single application for the 14 posts that 
I registered, each post is registered as part of a larger registration, 
using the previous method that I used, I would have to compile all the 
posts into a single post, and then register that single post as 
a "Collective Work" that I'd have a claim on. 

This distinction probably 
isn't obvious to someone who doesn't 
register copyrights, but an analogy 
that might make this easier to understand, 
is that it's like having 14 
different deeds to 14 different 1 acre plots of 
land, rather than having 
1 deed to a single 14 acre plot of land.

464

I did file a copyright for a few of my posts from the Letters from 
Sanford Street series, I used the "Online Literary Works" form, and 
it was somewhat more involved than using the Standard Registration 
process, but it does allow me to have claims on each individual post, 
rather than having a single claim one gigantic series. In this specific 
case, even though there is a single application for the 14 posts that 
I registered, each post is registered as part of a larger registration, 
using the previous method that I used, I would have to compile all the 
posts into a single post, and then register that single post as 
a "Collective Work" that I'd have a claim on. 

This distinction probably 
isn't obvious to someone who doesn't 
register copyrights, but an analogy 
that might make this easier to understand, 
is that it's like having 14 
different deeds to 14 different 1 acre plots of 
land, rather than having 
1 deed to a single 14 acre plot of land.

465

another issue when registering copyright
that I'm kind of coming into right now is 
the issue of a work that has multiple authors.

I want to register some of the things that I worked
on for MIS 764, but, technically everything was a group 
assignment, so technically everything has three authors.
and technically, everything has three owners, since I think 
in this case authorship and ownership would be the same.

similar to the analogy above, if a 10 acre plot of land has 
three owners, each owner has a 33.3% interest in that 10 acre 
plot of land, they don't have 3.33 acres each.

466

I also set up a mailbox at the UPS Store for my business, 
Chestnut + Hazel, and, even though I'm putting off registering 
the business in Clark County for the time being, I'm sure that 
I'll come around to it at some point.

another issue when registering copyright
that I'm kind of coming into right now is 
the issue of a work that has multiple authors.

I want to register some of the things that I worked
on for MIS 764, but, technically everything was a group 
assignment, so technically everything has three authors.
and technically, everything has three owners, since I think 
in this case authorship and ownership would be the same.

similar to the analogy above, if a 10 acre plot of land has 
three owners, each owner has a 33.3% interest in that 10 acre 
plot of land, they don't have 3.33 acres each.

467

What I'm I dealing with right now? 
I tried withdrawing from the MSQF 
program at UTA, but it's not as simple 
as clicking a button and withdrawing, 
and dropping out, if it was that easy, 
that's probably what I would have done; 
on the one hand, I don't really want to 
drop out, and on the other hand, I don't 
really see myself going back to the 
Dallas / Fort Worth area.

468

I really don't see myself ever going back to the 
Dallas/ Fort Worth area, but it's possible that one circumstance 
or another might lead me right back there. It was one circumstance 
or another that brought me to the Dallas / Fort Worth area in the 
first place, maybe one circumstance or another might bring me back 
there, but I really don't see that happening.

469

Who knows what could happen between now and December? 
Anything in the universe could happen between now and December, 
and so it might make sense for me to keep my options open, and 
that's kind of why I'm seeking "incompletes" for my courses, 
rather than withdrawing from the courses completely and 
dropping out of the MSQF program. 

While I'm here in Las Vegas I should probably find 
work. One of the issues about finding work here in 
Las Vegas is that once I start looking for work and 
once I start really setting myself up here in Las Vegas, 
it becomes less and less likely that I'll return to 
Dallas / Fort Worth. I didn't really have anything 
going on for me, other than graduate school, that was 
really keeping me in Dallas / Fort Work, and I was 
facing a number of issues in addition to not really 
being able to get anything done in terms of course 
work and in terms of studying, I had a number of 
problems going on that I really would rather not mention.

470

there was something that 
I was thinking about.
the power went out and the wi-fi connection isn't
working right now.

📮5892 Losee RD STE 132 PMB 176, North Las Vegas, NV 89081-6200 📧 info@chestnutandhazel.com ☎+1-816-724-5293

but where are the oranges 
and where are the grapes and
where. are. the tangerines?

699419196923423523
568948319769000067
918377665423331233
349305523412341234
556667887429478623
457324593245582235
632347518234575054
533534364784058713

and can you tell me something new something 
that I didn't already know something new something 
novel something that I am unfamiliar with?

457324593245582235
180719869712633802
198468402873748397
892374992348792340
479012765681273942

test where 
the things have 
gone and where 
they will go.

471

It feels strange being back in Las Vegas, 
passing by the city skyline it just seems small 
in comparison to the DFW area. I really only saw 
the Dallas skyline a hand full of times, a few 
times when I moved to Dallas in 2020, and then, 
usually each time I left the area on a road trip. 
I feel funny. This feels really weird. Being back here. 
It feels different, it feels really different this time. 
Being here. Well, guess what is on my mind? it isn't 
popcorn, and it isn't corn on the cob! the only thing 
that I'm thinking about right now is how butter is simply 
not the answer.

472

Butter is not the Answer # 10
https://www.blogger.com/u/1/blog/post/edit/1329052986263180533/1399004052754844542
When I think about it, I wonder what it would have been like to stay in Gallup, New Mexico, 
if I would have started a life out there. It wouldn't have been clear to me what I would 
have done for work, or if there really was any work out there for me to do. I'm still so 
unsure about this whole thing about being back in Nevada.

66 miles outside of Las Vegas. I'm at a gas station just unwinding for a little bit. Hum
back in Arizona I stopped at a Napa Auto Parts store and changed my wiper blades.
I'm about 160 miles outside of Las Vegas. I emailed my graduate advisor about my situation, 
and about the need to potentially withdraw from the MSQF program.
After staying the night in Roswell, NM I kept driving until I passed through Gallup, NM, 
where I stayed the night.

473

I'm about 160 miles outside of Las Vegas. I emailed my graduate advisor about 
my situation, and about the need to potentially withdraw from the MSQF program.
Archived Content 10/13/2022 11:55 PM 

474

After staying the night in Roswell, NM I kept driving 
until I passed through Gallup, NM, where I stayed the night.

Butter is not the Answer # 9
I stayed in Gallup, New Mexico for just one 
night, I hung out with one of the locals, and 
I really think that I liked her. I really would 
have considered staying in Gallup, New Mexico, still. 
I'm not sure what I would have done for work, or where 
I would have stayed or, whatever. There was something 
interesting at the hotel I stayed at. The hotel was 
actually somewhat fancy, and some of the other hotels 
in the area, the ones that seemed abandoned, or worn 
down, or otherwise kind of lousy, were the ones I really 
wanted to stay at. I wanted to stay at a cheaper motel, 
or cheaper hotel or something that was cheap, and also 
looked cheap. The desk agent was actually a person who was telecommuting.

I'm in Gallup, New Mexico. This seems like a 
tourist destination, but, it also 
seems like a college town too.

I'm angry about 
the whole thing
that happened it Texas

the whole disaster
that happened to me
those last few months.

Annotation written on 10/09/2022 @ 05:29 PM
Archived Content 10/14/2022 12:05 AM 

I really thought about staying here. 
or
I really thought about staying in 
Gallup, New Mexico. They have
a University there, and I really
thought about relocating to that
area.

475

Somtimes it just isn't where the things 
are or where they were or where 
those things will go, but you know how
Butter is not the Answer # 8
was probably one of the best poems ever and

I'm still in New Mexico. I'm kind of exploring the state, 
but I'm also really angry about the way things turned out 
for me in Texas. I don't know what to do about withdrawing from UTA. 
I need permission to drop all my classes, it seems, and. I'm 
considering just holding off for the time being. I need some 
time to think. I don't know what I'm going to do for work when 
I get to Las Vegas. Archived Content 10/14/2022 05:27 PM the 
answer is here, and the answer is not butter.

476

a man wrote a poem entitled
Butter is not the Answer # 8
and it turned out to be one of the greatest poems in the history of mankind.

I'm still in New Mexico.  where the world 
has been turned upside down for mem and 
I'm kind of exploring the state, but I'm also really angry 
about the way things turned out for me in Texas. I don't 
know what to do about withdrawing from UTA. 

I need permission to drop all my classes, it seems, and. 
I'm considering just holding off for the time being. I need 
some time to think. I don't know what I'm going to do for 
work when I get to Las Vegas. Archived Content 10/14/2022 
05:27 PM the answer is here, and the answer is not butter.

when things were better and butter was
the answer to the issues surrounding the 
need for better popcorn. then yes. but after that.
then no. that's the way it goes.

477

the meeting cannot take place because
everytime I think about you I develop a 
thorbbing. headache. of the loins.
Postcards from Tennessee # 8 
It feels strange being back in Las Vegas, passing 
by the city skyline it just seems small in comparison 
to the DFW area. I really only saw the Dallas skyline a hand full of times, 
a few times when I moved to Dallas in 2020, and then, 
usually each time I left the area on a road trip. I feel funny. This feels really weird. 
Being back here. It feels different, 
it feels really different this time. Being here. Well, guess what is on my mind? it isn't popcorn, 
and it isn't corn on the cob! 
the only thing that I'm thinking about right now is how butter is simply not the answer.

478

but maybe you will come across a
Postcards from Tennessee # 8 
which will be nicer than the last one.
nicer than most things 
that are nicer than the Woman
who was not wearing Anything 
when she came over you read all of the
Postcards from Tennessee # 9 
here we go, and there we go again, and How 
Post: Edit (blogger.com) 
will I know what you have been up to when things did not go well and
https://www.blogger.com/u/1/blog/post/edit/1329052986263180533/2719064057174264964

479

Butter is not the Answer # 10
https://www.blogger.com/u/1/blog/post/edit/1329052986263180533/1399004052754844542

When I think about it, I wonder what it would have been like to stay in Gallup, 
New Mexico, if I would have started a life out there. It wouldn't have been clear to 
me what I would have done for work, or if there really was any work out there for me 
to do. I'm still so unsure about this whole thing about being back in Nevada.

66 miles outside of Las Vegas. I'm at a gas station just unwinding for a little bit.
Hum back in Arizona I stopped at a Napa Auto Parts store and changed my wiper blades.
I'm about 160 miles outside of Las Vegas. I emailed my graduate advisor about my situation, 
and about the need to potentially withdraw from the MSQF program.
After staying the night in Roswell, NM I kept driving until I passed 
through Gallup, NM, where I stayed the night.

when i came to the meeting she 
was completely naked and 
drenched in butter, because 
she was 
a corn-on-the-cob.
named.
cornelia!

480

I'm about 160 miles outside of Las Vegas. 
I emailed my graduate advisor about my situation, 
and about the need to potentially withdraw from the MSQF program.
Archived Content 10/13/2022 11:55 PM 

when i came to the meeting she 
was completely naked and 
drenched in butter, because 
she was 
a corn-on-the-cob.
named.
cornelia!
  
Butter is not the Answer # 9
I stayed in Gallup, New Mexico for 
just one night, I hung out with one of 
the locals, and I really think that I 
liked her. I really would have considered 
staying in Gallup, New Mexico, still. I'm 
not sure what I would have done for work, or 
where I would have stayed or, whatever. There 
was something interesting at the hotel I stayed 
at. The hotel was actually somewhat fancy, and 
some of the other hotels in the area, the ones 
that seemed abandoned, or worn down, or 
otherwise kind of lousy, were the ones I 
really wanted to stay at. I wanted to stay 
at a cheaper motel, or cheaper hotel or 
something that was cheap, and also looked 
cheap. The desk agent was actually a person who was telecommuting.

when i came to the meeting she 
was completely naked and 
drenched in butter, because 
she was 
a corn-on-the-cob.
named.
cornelia!

481

I'm in Gallup, New Mexico. This seems like a tourist destination, but, it also seems like a college town too.

I'm angry about 
the whole thing
that happened it Texas

the whole disaster
that happened to me
those last few months.

Annotation written on 10/09/2022 @ 05:29 PM
Archived Content 10/14/2022 12:05 AM 

I really thought about staying here. 
or
I really thought about staying in 
Gallup, New Mexico. They have
a University there, and I really
thought about relocating to that
area.

482

when i came to the meeting she 
was completely naked and 
drenched in butter, because 
she was 
a corn-on-the-cob.
named.
cornelia!

Postcards from Tennessee # 9 
Post: Edit (blogger.com) 
https://www.blogger.com/u/1/blog/post/edit/1329052986263180533/2719064057174264964
I stated in Gallup, New Mexico for just one night, I hung out with one of the locals, 
and I really think that I liked her. I really would have considered staying in Gallup, 
New Mexico, still. I'm not sure what I would have done for work, or where I would have 
stayed or, whatever. There was something interesting at the hotel I stayed at. The 
hotel was actually somewhat fancy, and some of the other hotels in the area, the ones 
that seemed abandoned, or worn down, or otherwise kind of lousy, were the ones I really 
wanted to stay at. I wanted to stay at a cheaper motel, or cheaper hotel or something 
that was cheap, and also looked cheap. The desk agent was actually a person who was telecommuting.

I'm in Gallup, New Mexico. This seems like a tourist 
destination, but, it also seems like a college town too.

483

Annotation written on 10/09/2022 @ 05:29 PM
I really thought about staying here. 
or
I really thought about staying in 
Gallup, New Mexico. They have
a University there, and I really
thought about relocating to that
area.

484

Postcards from Tennessee # 9
and where did you go last night?
how was that woman you spent time with?
who was she. I am jealous! 

485

Butter is not the Answer # 8
I'm still in New Mexico. I'm kind of 
exploring the state, but I'm also really 
angry about the way things turned out for 
me in Texas. I don't know what to do about 
withdrawing from UTA. I need permission to 
drop all my classes, it seems, and. I'm 
considering just holding off for the time being. 
I need some time to think. I don't know what I'm 
going to do for work when I get to Las Vegas. 
Archived Content 10/14/2022 05:27 PM the 
answer is here, and the answer is not butter.

486

Postcards from Tennessee # 8 
but where were you when I went to tell 
you how things were and how 
things would eventually get better 
even without butter.

487

who is she?
do you love her?

488

After staying the night in Roswell, NM 
I kept driving until I passed through 
Gallup, NM, where I stayed the night.

489

Postcards from Tennessee # 10 
that night the other night 
when the ice was on the roads and
everything was slick 
and you fell into a ditch or 
drove your car intoa  ditch. I was sad.
I thought that was it. 
I thought that it was over. but it was not.
over. it wasn't. it simply wasnt.

490

I'm at a hotel in Roswell, 
New Mexico. I could have sworn 
that I dropped my classes at the 
University of Texas at Arlington. 
I feel funny about dropping out, 
I mean. I moved out there, I mean, 
to Texas, and I stayed there for 
two years, and I finally had an 
opportunity to go to college, and 
I dropped out, but, it doesn't 
seem that the system will 
allow me to drop my 
classes. I don't 
know what the 
hell to 
do. I 
don't 
really 
want to 
go back to 
Las Vegas, and 
I also don't really 
want to go back to Texas. 
I don't really know what the 
fuck to do, and I really don't 
know where the fuck to go. I don't 
want to go back to Vegas, and I don't 
want to go back to Texas. I just don't 
know what the fuck to do right now. Archived 
Content 10/14/2022 05:28 PM sometimes I think about butter.

491

I'm leaving Texas and heading back to Las Vegas. I'm taking the time to sit down and write something. 
I remember 
coming down here. I mean, to Texas, years ago when I first moved here, and I almost headed back to 
Las Vegas 
after the first few nights here. I remember just driving around the state for a while, and then 
staying in 
the DFW area, and then tried to head to Vegas, but for some reason I ended up staying here. 

I completed 
the dba stuff at the UPS store when I got back here, it's the same place I set up an address at when 
I first 
came to Texas. Well, there are two separate governing bodies that dba registration have to be filed 
with, Tarrant 
County, and the Texas Secretary of State, I did the registration with the Secretary of State when I 
was 
in Little Rock, Arkansas because it didn't require being notarized by a notary in Tarrant County.

492

mushrooms become aware of their surroundings
and begin to question
the reasons for why they grow and
begin to think of better ways
to become larger and
more delicious

493

and avocadoes become aware of
how they are made into
guacamole
and avocadoes become aware
of how they become
avocado toast
and they become aware
of how tomatoes become
pico de gallo 

494

and the sausages become aware of
how they know what the
hot dogs who are their cousins
of who you are
and why you
still occupy my thoughts
and why i'm still upset

495

of how the cabbages
in the garden have become
fermented and have
become saurkraut
and how they have become shredded 
and have become coleslaw
and how they have been
boiled.

496

but when you came over 
and we did not have a meeting 
I was upset.

497

who is 
she!

498

her name is cornelia, and she 
is always covered in butter, because 
cornelia, is a corn-on-the-cob. a 
real one. a real corn-on-the-cob!

499

this is the price we pay for Big Macs and Quarter Pounders
when we go to McDonalds. if you have the coupon, you can 
buy one and get one free both for four-nintey-nine! baby!

500

and so, now I backtrack. 
I head all the way back to Tarrant County, 
and then I head to Vegas. I feel like my life 
is nothing but a series of going in one 
fucking direction, and then back-tracking. 
Let's just figure out this dba bullshit first.

501

i have 2 
fucking days.

I have to head all the way back to 
Tarrant County, and then figure out 
where to go from there. I mean. I 
guess I'll head over to Vegas. I mean, 
I have to figure out the whole school 
thing, and I really think it might be 
easier to just go to UTA, and somehow, 
you know, express the extraordinary 
challenges that I've faced these last few weeks.

502

butter is something that comes from a cow 
when you squeeze the cow in a very specific 
way and when you have an olive and you squeeze 
the olive in a very specific way you get olive oil 
and when you find yourself eating breadsticks and you 
find youself asking if the breadsticks were coated 
in butter, it is possible that butter is not the answer.
it's possible that olive oil is the correct answer.

503

What I'm I dealing with right now? I tried withdrawing from the 
MSQF program at UTA, but it's not as simple as clicking a button 
and withdrawing, and dropping out, if it was that easy, that's 
probably what I would have done; on the one hand, I don't really 
want to drop out, and on the other hand, I don't really see myself 
going back to the Dallas / Fort Worth area.

504

there were things 
that I discovered 
out there in the wilderness.
and there were things 
that I saw that I 
didn't want to see.

505

Butter is not the Answer # 1
nor is butter made of oil 
nor are there alternatives
to vegetable oil 
nor are there things that are 
different forms of cheese 
nor are there things that cannot 
be well and good 
nor are there 

506

I don't completely 
remember what set me 
off on that First road 
trip in June, or the one 
in February, or any of these. 
Maybe I was thinking about 
relocating. I don't remember. 
I think that I'm going to 
relocate this time, but what 
the hell am I going to do 
for work? How the hell do 
I get set up in a new town?

507

things that were there were 
things that were always new 
and were things that were doable and 
we cannot have a meeting because 
you are not available to meet with me 
during a time that would work 
for us both but when there 
are times that work for 
you there are times 
that may or may not work
for me.

508

one thing that I often face that 
impedes my ability to get anything 
done is the avalanche of emails that 
I have to deal with, or that fall into 
my mail box. I obviously don't read them 
all, but I usually scan them to see if they 
contain anything important. or are just useless.

509

most of the time they are just useless 
and they just ask me millions 
of various questions.

510

you are not allowed 
to be a mean person.

511

Thinking. I'm going to hold off on 
looking for work right 
now. or looking 
for an internship or anything like that.

I really should just be 
focusing on school right now.

512

there were a bunch of things that I 
saw the other day that really scared me.
Class Notes Starting September 14th, 2022 

there was an orange on the table 
and there was a man squeezing the orange 
and putting all the juice inside 
of a cup.

513

one thing that I 
often face that impedes 
my ability to get anything 
done is the avalanche of 
emails that 
I have to 
deal with, 
or that 
fall into 
my mail 
box. I 
obviously 
don't read them 
all, but I 
usually scan 
them to see if 
they contain anything important.

I remeber there being certian headache
kind of annoying process to log in to a computer.
and it was a real headache, and it was a really
useless thing to do and it was an orange who made 
itself into a bottle of orange juice.

514

Thinking. I'm going to hold off on looking for work right now. or looking for an internship or anything like that.

I really should just be focusing on school right now.

...

Class Notes Starting September 14th, 2022 

...

what else is on my mind? Just facing quite a few challenges lately. It seems as though everywhere I go, someone or another tries to instigate a reaction. and it isn't always clear to me why.

...

June
July 
and 
August

were kind of a blur

same for the first part of September. I think that I went on four road trips this year. really long fucking road trips.

...

way passed it's expiration date.
Archived Content 09/25/2022 06:13 PM 
Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

I really don't want to wear hats anymore. I feel like they give me a headache. One thing I realize from being in Texas for several years now, is that, it's hot, and humid, and it's really easy to get sweaty and smelly.

...

I would like to think up a new series title, but I really can't come up with anything. I really can't think of anything.

...

This is where the orange juice 
sends the lemonade to the martini. 
this is where the mimosa and the 
mojito drink and eat and feel 
the ends of the earth.

...

okay, so here is the issue. currently. i might be able to get some work done, but i'm not entirely sure about that. it's fifty-fifty.

...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

it can be kind of difficult to get anything done around here. a total fucking nightmare. I doubt that any of us can really get anything done.


it's kind of such a nightmare. to get anything done/ it can



\

Placeholder, still h

...

im not an indolent moron, nor am i an insolent ingrate. im tired. thats it. i guess it's a smoking room.

i ended up smoking in the room anyway. dont worry. i didnt have any fucking food. so i ate the nearest thing available. 

anyway. i know it took me a while to return to dallas, but, i figured that time was not of the essence, since compound interest is the most powerful force in the universe.

however. i have to figure something out. i cant find my fucking calculator. i havent upgraded since 1989. i dont even know if i still have that thing. shit.

...

always. if i visit Kentucky. i invariably manage to take the route back to dallas that passes through nashville. or vice versa, like last month.

...

This is the Third Time, September 3rd, 2022

anyway.

kenneth larot yamat is currently subject to a nondisclosure agreement with an undisclosed party.

should any specific remarks be made about his complete inability to perform cunnilingus from monday 7:02 AM to monday 7:77 AM be discussed with anyone other than the appropriate parties invloved, he will be in violation of said non-disclosure agreement, the breach of which will require significant compensation in the form of additional specific performance of additional cunnilingus or additional performance based compensation in the form of substantially more intense cunnilingus for the remainder of the current artistic performance of completely unsatisfactory cunnilingus, requiring an additional cunnilingus session performed with all deliberate haste.

should he smell like anything other than pussy juice upon his return to his current residence, he will be subject to nothing less than multiple additional performances of additional cunnilingus. 

...

some young man made a defamatory remark a while ago. young. but thats the way it goes for kids his age. well. he left. so.

well. any chance he could. you know. he is.

...

i dont know whats up. but. i think someone out there is accomplishment blocking me. i tried to head back to texas so that i could attend class in person, however, as soon as i left indiana, there was a fucking monsoon, or fucking invasion from outer space consisting primarily of rain drops, which kept falling on my head. so i put on my hat.

i dont feel like drowning to death. right now. i asked the sheriff for directions, he said theres a hotel in the big city. i got there. and there was no hotel. i guess i should have asked the deputy, but either he didnt have a deputy, or the deputy was in invisible mode. so.

...

When I think about. I don't know what to say.

this is the third road trip in 3 months. i'm tired. and. im just so irritable.

i want to be nice, but, sometimes i end up in places i dont really want to be.

i really don't want to withdraw from school. i think that the discipline i'm pursuing is an important one.

i just don't know why i face the challenges that i face.

but this third road trip. really. even though it has been a nightmare, i don't think that the outcome will be as terrible as.

i just don't know what to say.

i really want to finish the program. im heading all the way back to texas. again.







...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...



...



Back Home, September 9th, 2022

Back Home, September 9th, 2022

i dont know what happened the other day. but i seemed to have irritated the bartender at this pizza place i went to. i really didn't understand what happened.

she seemed upset about something. she said that she wanted me to leave. so i paid and left.

a guy chased after me, and said: "No one here thinks that's funny."

and i still have no idea what i did, or what offense i committed.

i remember, i asked where the basil was, and a woman behind me said:

"the toppings are placed underneath the cheese here."

and i responded: "you're right about that, i've eaten here before."

and then i just sort of went at it with my pizza,

and then the bartender became upset.

my nails were dirty, really dirty, and i was eating two slices of pizza at a time. like a pig.

and maybe that was the thing, she was irritated that i was eating like a pig.

but.

i think that i was eating with a fork and knife first, and then
i started eating with my hands.

maybe i should just change my major or something.

i really fucking wanted to go to school, but, i don't really know what the hell to do.

...




...



...







...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

The sector analysis paper is due before the 
Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess 
I'll get started on that first.

i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.

when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.

...

I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?

...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating

lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.

nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so

never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at

11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.

there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...



...

what else is on my mind? Just facing quite a few challenges lately. It seems as though everywhere I go, someone or another tries to instigate a reaction. and it isn't always clear to me why.

...

June
July 
and 
August

were kind of a blur

same for the first part of September. I think that I went on four road trips this year. really long fucking road trips.

...

way passed it's expiration date.
Archived Content 09/25/2022 06:13 PM 
Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

I really don't want to wear hats anymore. I feel like they give me a headache. One thing I realize from being in Texas for several years now, is that, it's hot, and humid, and it's really easy to get sweaty and smelly.

...

I would like to think up a new series title, but I really can't come up with anything. I really can't think of anything.

...

This is where the orange juice 
sends the lemonade to the martini. 
this is where the mimosa and the 
mojito drink and eat and feel 
the ends of the earth.

...

okay, so here is the issue. currently. i might be able to get some work done, but i'm not entirely sure about that. it's fifty-fifty.

...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

it can be kind of difficult to get anything done around here. a total fucking nightmare. I doubt that any of us can really get anything done.


it's kind of such a nightmare. to get anything done/ it can



\

Placeholder, still h

...

im not an indolent moron, nor am i an insolent ingrate. im tired. thats it. i guess it's a smoking room.

i ended up smoking in the room anyway. dont worry. i didnt have any fucking food. so i ate the nearest thing available. 

anyway. i know it took me a while to return to dallas, but, i figured that time was not of the essence, since compound interest is the most powerful force in the universe.

however. i have to figure something out. i cant find my fucking calculator. i havent upgraded since 1989. i dont even know if i still have that thing. shit.

...

always. if i visit Kentucky. i invariably manage to take the route back to dallas that passes through nashville. or vice versa, like last month.

...

This is the Third Time, September 3rd, 2022

anyway.

kenneth larot yamat is currently subject to a nondisclosure agreement with an undisclosed party.

should any specific remarks be made about his complete inability to perform cunnilingus from monday 7:02 AM to monday 7:77 AM be discussed with anyone other than the appropriate parties invloved, he will be in violation of said non-disclosure agreement, the breach of which will require significant compensation in the form of additional specific performance of additional cunnilingus or additional performance based compensation in the form of substantially more intense cunnilingus for the remainder of the current artistic performance of completely unsatisfactory cunnilingus, requiring an additional cunnilingus session performed with all deliberate haste.

should he smell like anything other than pussy juice upon his return to his current residence, he will be subject to nothing less than multiple additional performances of additional cunnilingus. 

...

some young man made a defamatory remark a while ago. young. but thats the way it goes for kids his age. well. he left. so.

well. any chance he could. you know. he is.

...

i dont know whats up. but. i think someone out there is accomplishment blocking me. i tried to head back to texas so that i could attend class in person, however, as soon as i left indiana, there was a fucking monsoon, or fucking invasion from outer space consisting primarily of rain drops, which kept falling on my head. so i put on my hat.

i dont feel like drowning to death. right now. i asked the sheriff for directions, he said theres a hotel in the big city. i got there. and there was no hotel. i guess i should have asked the deputy, but either he didnt have a deputy, or the deputy was in invisible mode. so.

...

When I think about. I don't know what to say.

this is the third road trip in 3 months. i'm tired. and. im just so irritable.

i want to be nice, but, sometimes i end up in places i dont really want to be.

i really don't want to withdraw from school. i think that the discipline i'm pursuing is an important one.

i just don't know why i face the challenges that i face.

but this third road trip. really. even though it has been a nightmare, i don't think that the outcome will be as terrible as.

i just don't know what to say.

i really want to finish the program. im heading all the way back to texas. again.







...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...



...



Back Home, September 9th, 2022

Back Home, September 9th, 2022

i dont know what happened the other day. but i seemed to have irritated the bartender at this pizza place i went to. i really didn't understand what happened.

she seemed upset about something. she said that she wanted me to leave. so i paid and left.

a guy chased after me, and said: "No one here thinks that's funny."

and i still have no idea what i did, or what offense i committed.

i remember, i asked where the basil was, and a woman behind me said:

"the toppings are placed underneath the cheese here."

and i responded: "you're right about that, i've eaten here before."

and then i just sort of went at it with my pizza,

and then the bartender became upset.

my nails were dirty, really dirty, and i was eating two slices of pizza at a time. like a pig.

and maybe that was the thing, she was irritated that i was eating like a pig.

but.

i think that i was eating with a fork and knife first, and then
i started eating with my hands.

maybe i should just change my major or something.

i really fucking wanted to go to school, but, i don't really know what the hell to do.

...




...



...







...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

The sector analysis paper is due before the 
Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess 
I'll get started on that first.

i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.

when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.

...

I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?

...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating

lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.

nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so

never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at

11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.

there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...



Notes Taken During My First Semester at the University of Texas at Arlington

...

Annotation to Notes from Arlington # 65

This was written during my June Road trip. It's September 25th, 2022, and I'm back in Tennessee. 

...

Archived Content 09/25/2022 06:13 PM 

...

i stayed in Somerville tn for a night. im in the next town over, and i already feel like just staying here.

...

today is sunday. my thinking is that the roads should be empty, and it would be a good idea to keep driving.

...

i cant really go back to texas anyway. but i dont really know where to go.

...

maybe it was just time to leave texas. i had been there for 2 years. maybe it was just time for me to go. i really don't know what to do about college though.

...

i think that im just going to relocate. 
i'm on the Arkansas side of Memphis. 
i honestly don't know where the hell to go.

Everywhere is a fucking nightmare.
the nightmare never ends.
I really can't go back to Texas.

I have to leave texas. I really do.
I don't really know where to go, though.
this was a fabulous waste of money.

I threw away as much of my stuff as I could.
and threw away additional stuff on my way here.

I'll probably throw away 
additional stuff here 
and there
on my way to where 
ever the hell I end up.

i don't really know where 
the fuck to go at
this point.

I'm facing one frustration after another.

...

I'm really having a hard time getting my business in a more formalized state. I have the various things that I need to do on my calendar, but, sometimes there is no telling if I will get anything done or not, or if I'll get distracted by this or that issue, or, you know, who knows what will happen. I'm still facing a number of different challenges. and stuff. You know, like this and that stuff.

...

Class Notes Starting September 14th, 2022

one thing that I often face that impedes my ability to get anything done is the avalanche of emails that I have to deal with, or that fall into my mail box. I obviously don't read them all, but I usually scan them to see if they contain anything important.

...

Thinking. I'm going to hold off on looking for work right now. or looking for an internship or anything like that.

I really should just be focusing on school right now.


...

what else is on my mind? Just facing quite a few challenges lately. It seems as though everywhere I go, someone or another tries to instigate a reaction. and it isn't always clear to me why.

...

June
July 
and 
August

were kind of a blur

same for the first part of September. I think that I went on four road trips this year. really long fucking road trips.

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 68

I better not buy anything that I don't need. I thought about buying a few wallets online, but I'm going to hold off on that for now.

Annotation to Notes from Arlington, Texas # 68

I really spent way too much money during these last few months. I really need to make my best effort to stay in school, otherwise I'm more or less fucked.

and again.

I really don't know how I'll be able to balance working and going to college at the same time. This might be a pain in the neck, but I also might be able to make this happen. Who knows.

...

















...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

I really don't want to wear hats anymore. I feel like they give me a headache. One thing I realize from being in Texas for several years now, is that, it's hot, and humid, and it's really easy to get sweaty and smelly.

...

I would like to think up a new series title, but I really can't come up with anything. I really can't think of anything.

...

This is where the orange juice 
sends the lemonade to the martini. 
this is where the mimosa and the 
mojito drink and eat and feel 
the ends of the earth.

...

okay, so here is the issue. currently. i might be able to get some work done, but i'm not entirely sure about that. it's fifty-fifty.

...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

it can be kind of difficult to get anything done around here. a total fucking nightmare. I doubt that any of us can really get anything done.


it's kind of such a nightmare. to get anything done/ it can



\

Placeholder, still h

...

im not an indolent moron, nor am i an insolent ingrate. im tired. thats it. i guess it's a smoking room.

i ended up smoking in the room anyway. dont worry. i didnt have any fucking food. so i ate the nearest thing available. 

anyway. i know it took me a while to return to dallas, but, i figured that time was not of the essence, since compound interest is the most powerful force in the universe.

however. i have to figure something out. i cant find my fucking calculator. i havent upgraded since 1989. i dont even know if i still have that thing. shit.

...

always. if i visit Kentucky. i invariably manage to take the route back to dallas that passes through nashville. or vice versa, like last month.

...

This is the Third Time, September 3rd, 2022

anyway.

kenneth larot yamat is currently subject to a nondisclosure agreement with an undisclosed party.

should any specific remarks be made about his complete inability to perform cunnilingus from monday 7:02 AM to monday 7:77 AM be discussed with anyone other than the appropriate parties invloved, he will be in violation of said non-disclosure agreement, the breach of which will require significant compensation in the form of additional specific performance of additional cunnilingus or additional performance based compensation in the form of substantially more intense cunnilingus for the remainder of the current artistic performance of completely unsatisfactory cunnilingus, requiring an additional cunnilingus session performed with all deliberate haste.

should he smell like anything other than pussy juice upon his return to his current residence, he will be subject to nothing less than multiple additional performances of additional cunnilingus. 

...

some young man made a defamatory remark a while ago. young. but thats the way it goes for kids his age. well. he left. so.

well. any chance he could. you know. he is.

...

i dont know whats up. but. i think someone out there is accomplishment blocking me. i tried to head back to texas so that i could attend class in person, however, as soon as i left indiana, there was a fucking monsoon, or fucking invasion from outer space consisting primarily of rain drops, which kept falling on my head. so i put on my hat.

i dont feel like drowning to death. right now. i asked the sheriff for directions, he said theres a hotel in the big city. i got there. and there was no hotel. i guess i should have asked the deputy, but either he didnt have a deputy, or the deputy was in invisible mode. so.

...

When I think about. I don't know what to say.

this is the third road trip in 3 months. i'm tired. and. im just so irritable.

i want to be nice, but, sometimes i end up in places i dont really want to be.

i really don't want to withdraw from school. i think that the discipline i'm pursuing is an important one.

i just don't know why i face the challenges that i face.

but this third road trip. really. even though it has been a nightmare, i don't think that the outcome will be as terrible as.

i just don't know what to say.

i really want to finish the program. im heading all the way back to texas. again.







...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...



...



Back Home, September 9th, 2022

Back Home, September 9th, 2022

i dont know what happened the other day. but i seemed to have irritated the bartender at this pizza place i went to. i really didn't understand what happened.

she seemed upset about something. she said that she wanted me to leave. so i paid and left.

a guy chased after me, and said: "No one here thinks that's funny."

and i still have no idea what i did, or what offense i committed.

i remember, i asked where the basil was, and a woman behind me said:

"the toppings are placed underneath the cheese here."

and i responded: "you're right about that, i've eaten here before."

and then i just sort of went at it with my pizza,

and then the bartender became upset.

my nails were dirty, really dirty, and i was eating two slices of pizza at a time. like a pig.

and maybe that was the thing, she was irritated that i was eating like a pig.

but.

i think that i was eating with a fork and knife first, and then
i started eating with my hands.

maybe i should just change my major or something.

i really fucking wanted to go to school, but, i don't really know what the hell to do.

...




...



...

Notes, Thoughts, and Reflections While Using the Bloomberg Terminal 





...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...

Class Notes Starting September 14th, 2022

one thing that I often face that impedes my ability to get anything done is the avalanche of emails that I have to deal with, or that fall into my mail box. I obviously don't read them all, but I usually scan them to see if they contain anything important.

...

Thinking. I'm going to hold off on looking for work right now. or looking for an internship or anything like that.

I really should just be focusing on school right now.


...

what else is on my mind? Just facing quite a few challenges lately. It seems as though everywhere I go, someone or another tries to instigate a reaction. and it isn't always clear to me why.

...

June
July 
and 
August

were kind of a blur

same for the first part of September. I think that I went on four road trips this year. really long fucking road trips.



...

















...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

I really don't want to wear hats anymore. I feel like they give me a headache. One thing I realize from being in Texas for several years now, is that, it's hot, and humid, and it's really easy to get sweaty and smelly.

...

I would like to think up a new series title, but I really can't come up with anything. I really can't think of anything.

...

This is where the orange juice 
sends the lemonade to the martini. 
this is where the mimosa and the 
mojito drink and eat and feel 
the ends of the earth.

...

okay, so here is the issue. currently. i might be able to get some work done, but i'm not entirely sure about that. it's fifty-fifty.

...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

it can be kind of difficult to get anything done around here. a total fucking nightmare. I doubt that any of us can really get anything done.


it's kind of such a nightmare. to get anything done/ it can



\

Placeholder, still h

...

im not an indolent moron, nor am i an insolent ingrate. im tired. thats it. i guess it's a smoking room.

i ended up smoking in the room anyway. dont worry. i didnt have any fucking food. so i ate the nearest thing available. 

anyway. i know it took me a while to return to dallas, but, i figured that time was not of the essence, since compound interest is the most powerful force in the universe.

however. i have to figure something out. i cant find my fucking calculator. i havent upgraded since 1989. i dont even know if i still have that thing. shit.

...

always. if i visit Kentucky. i invariably manage to take the route back to dallas that passes through nashville. or vice versa, like last month.

...

This is the Third Time, September 3rd, 2022

anyway.

kenneth larot yamat is currently subject to a nondisclosure agreement with an undisclosed party.

should any specific remarks be made about his complete inability to perform cunnilingus from monday 7:02 AM to monday 7:77 AM be discussed with anyone other than the appropriate parties invloved, he will be in violation of said non-disclosure agreement, the breach of which will require significant compensation in the form of additional specific performance of additional cunnilingus or additional performance based compensation in the form of substantially more intense cunnilingus for the remainder of the current artistic performance of completely unsatisfactory cunnilingus, requiring an additional cunnilingus session performed with all deliberate haste.

should he smell like anything other than pussy juice upon his return to his current residence, he will be subject to nothing less than multiple additional performances of additional cunnilingus. 

...

some young man made a defamatory remark a while ago. young. but thats the way it goes for kids his age. well. he left. so.

well. any chance he could. you know. he is.

...

i dont know whats up. but. i think someone out there is accomplishment blocking me. i tried to head back to texas so that i could attend class in person, however, as soon as i left indiana, there was a fucking monsoon, or fucking invasion from outer space consisting primarily of rain drops, which kept falling on my head. so i put on my hat.

i dont feel like drowning to death. right now. i asked the sheriff for directions, he said theres a hotel in the big city. i got there. and there was no hotel. i guess i should have asked the deputy, but either he didnt have a deputy, or the deputy was in invisible mode. so.

...

When I think about. I don't know what to say.

this is the third road trip in 3 months. i'm tired. and. im just so irritable.

i want to be nice, but, sometimes i end up in places i dont really want to be.

i really don't want to withdraw from school. i think that the discipline i'm pursuing is an important one.

i just don't know why i face the challenges that i face.

but this third road trip. really. even though it has been a nightmare, i don't think that the outcome will be as terrible as.

i just don't know what to say.

i really want to finish the program. im heading all the way back to texas. again.







...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...



...



Back Home, September 9th, 2022

Back Home, September 9th, 2022

i dont know what happened the other day. but i seemed to have irritated the bartender at this pizza place i went to. i really didn't understand what happened.

she seemed upset about something. she said that she wanted me to leave. so i paid and left.

a guy chased after me, and said: "No one here thinks that's funny."

and i still have no idea what i did, or what offense i committed.

i remember, i asked where the basil was, and a woman behind me said:

"the toppings are placed underneath the cheese here."

and i responded: "you're right about that, i've eaten here before."

and then i just sort of went at it with my pizza,

and then the bartender became upset.

my nails were dirty, really dirty, and i was eating two slices of pizza at a time. like a pig.

and maybe that was the thing, she was irritated that i was eating like a pig.

but.

i think that i was eating with a fork and knife first, and then
i started eating with my hands.

maybe i should just change my major or something.

i really fucking wanted to go to school, but, i don't really know what the hell to do.

...




...



...

Notes, Thoughts, and Reflections While Using the Bloomberg Terminal 





...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 67

I should. well.

...

Annotation to Notes from Arlington, Texas # 67

I don't remember what I was going through when I wrote this particular note. Maybe I was in a state of confusion or something. or Maybe I was thinking about something else. I don't really know.

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 66

That was a nightmare. I went on this strange road-trip, crossing nearly a jillion states, I ended up in the psychiatric hospital on a court ordered mental health hold. Something similar to a 51-50 in California. and now I'm back home.

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 66

...

What is the deal right now. This is an annotation to Notes from Arlington, Texas # 66. I'm thinking. This was a note from a while ago. I think this was after the June Road Trip. These road trips were interesting. A nightmare, but interesting as well.

...

September 20th, 2022

51.00 + 65.00

"The brunette bartender at the Restaurant on Collins Boulevard"


her name is katie, and i distinctly remember her having 

blonde hair the last time i came here

this time she berates me for my behavior the last time

i came here, so are 

you going to sit at a booth the next time

you get irritated, 

or are you going to stay where you are?

i tell her i'll stay where I am,

still minutes later. no food. i'm really hungry.

starving. even

she has knockers and she's on collins

i order a bicardi

katie berates me for not having


for having taken a seat elsewhere the last time I was here

i order a tray of 6 naked wings,

but when they arrive they are drenched in
a sweet red sauce?
what is this?

what could this be?
it's sauce!

attitude.
she has an attitude.

it's not that i'm lacking in gratitude.
i'm hungry.

unlike the last time i was here I ate more than
enough.

and you still haven't visted the location in Dallas

the location in dallas is where the largest location is
really. you won't believe how amazing it is.
the largest in the united states, maybe even the world!

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 65

06/15/2022 08:32 PM

...

I'm in fucking Nashville.

* * *

it's a constant recalibration of what i need to do. filing for unemployment is a total waste of time. filing an unemployment insurance claim is a total waste of time. my claim never gets approved. nightmare. so what the hell do i do?

* * *

There is an issue of. i need to have enough student loan money to cover living expenses. i really don't want to resort to taking out private fucking student loans.

* * *

this is a nightmare. i think that i'll either. i think that i'll file the unemployment claim. and the disability claim.

i'm looking at my electricity bill. 55 fucking kilowatt hours! 10 dollars and 55 fucking cents. i'm home all the time now. so. i just have to figure out what the hell to do over the next few. hell. there really is no telling how long this is going to take. to find work.

if i do have to relocate. yeah. i don't really know.

* * *

i don't know if i should file an additional unemployment claim or what.

* * *

large butts. are part of the large butt industrial complex. small butts. are part of the small butt industrial complex. there are different industries. and there are different industrial complexes. that's just more or less the way that it is. that is more or less the way that it goes. there is something that i was thinking about.

* * *

sometimes designs put us at odds with one another. sometimes designs intentionally put us at odds with one another. i get that quiet spaces are needed. i remember. i found it difficult to accept a work from home position. because. me neighborhood was just too noisy at the time. it was hard to accept calls. it was hard to concentrate on work. it was hard to focus. sometimes it can be hard to focus. sometimes it can be hard to get things done when it's noisy. does it really enhance your concentration. well. who know. i do. i really do need to make a living. and. right now. i just don't think that i can do that. 

i think. it's a conspiracy on the part of the sell things industrial complex. i think that it's part of the industrial goods industrial complex. you have a problem. and we have the solution. i do not want all old things. i want all new things. i don't want a single new thing. i want all old things. i do not want anything other than high prices antiques that are sold by the most respectable antique dealers. and that's the only thing that i want. antiques. antiques. respectable. respectable. 

i remember. there were a few times when i worked in an office setting. and. it was noisy. and. in those cases. i was the noisy one.

* * *

i'm trying to compile my posts for Letters from Sanford Street. and this is the kind of thing that will take some time. what else was i trying to do? well. there was something that i needed to work on, but for some reason. it seems to have slipped my mind. i don't know how to deal with this kind of thing. it's possible that. he might just be trying to get an interview done or something. i have no idea. but he just left. and now this is easier.

i get. i understand that we don't always have our own private work spaces. we don't all have our own offices. and. these quite spaces are really needed. i get that.

part of the reason that i do conduct business. i do work from home when as far as work pertains to Chestnut + Hazel. is because i really don't have money for an office. not right now. any maybe the work from home thing does come with opportunities that can change things.

i think about the people who started businesses in their dorm room. or people who started businesses in their garage.

* * *

it doesn't take long for quiet spaces to become loud spaces. quiet spaces. everyone needs them. i think this guy is from the walking advertisement industrial complex.

* * *

i have to look for something. i have to look for a position. not because i need the money, but because it's relevant to what i want to accomplish. but the only think i really want to accomplish is to have more money.

* * *

i liquidated nearly everything in my robinhood account. i don't think that i would have ever done that. really. i thought that i would just be able to hold down a job. but i actually can't. i can't hold down a job. everyone picks on me. and this is true no matter where i work.

i have to think about what my next moves are. because this is a nightmare. i don't know if i'll be able to find work. or what. or what kind of work or employment i should be looking for.

* * *

alright. well I guess that's over. what a total nightmare. but right now. i really don't know what to do for work.

* * *

it wasn't too far back that i really felt that things were getting better. but they continue to be a disaster. what the hell do i need to do.

* * *

These last few days have been extremely challenging for me. Everything feels like a kind of sensation overload, and I have to look for work, again.

* * *


Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
9m
make a reference to the original. make an attribution. and make a contribution by making a slight change.

think about the original sin of mankind. make a slight change. then make a contribution of your own. you'll have fun. but this assertion is not guaranteed.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
12m
have you ever tasted how so many things taste similar to one another. this one iPhone had a very similar taste to this generic smart phone i was licking earlier. can you taste the difference? i couldn't! i'm embarrassed and i feel like i have no taste.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
14m
maybe we can collect all of the artifacts that the people all over the universe are collecting. if others collect them. then we too should collect them. in many ways. this is a good thing. in other ways. it's something other than a good thing.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
15m
there is an ongoing twitter conflict between the freudians and the hubbardians. this sort of thing will never end. is it all in your mind. or is it all in your head. this debate will never end.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
16m
orange juice is made from squeezed oranges. lemonade is made from squeeze lemons.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
there really is no such thing as a free lunch. but these tweet is free. 

eat my tweet.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
i met a man from an antique land who said. that upon his ball sack. these cock rings appear.

i told him it's wrong to use a cock ring for his ball sack. it's better to use a ball ring.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
what color are your balls. well. you wouldn't know unless you opened your scrotum and checked.

and don't think you can trick me by painting your balls. or dying them red. neptune is an even bluer big ball with a ball ring.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
sputnik was the first man made ball of steel to circle an even greener. and even bluer ball. the earth is a big blue ball.

think of the white ball. and think of the red ball. tonight. we dine at the pub. tonight we play pool.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
balls. inside of an even bigger. translucent ball. and your balls are numbered. 

because we're playing bingo. what did you think we were doing.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
balls. inside of a netted sack.

i think. therefore. that these are onions.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
and on that pedestal. massive stone balls appear.

and on those pedestals. these massive stone balls appear.

do they have names. I don't think they do.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
i think. i dont really know. spam. maybe. ham. maybe. green apples and spam. what do you think.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
large balls. stone balls. concrete spheres mounted on cubes outside of city hall.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
everything is a headache. and everything else is a nightmare.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
but everything is kind of uncertain. onions and maybe some kind of sauce.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
pencils and pens and notebooks. a laptop a tablet. maybe a new phone.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
pencils and pens and notebooks. a laptop a tablet. maybe a new phone.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
... well. i guess she's off the market now. and i guess its no skin off my cock.

#megamatzoballs
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
... she said something about the beach and a fish net g string and a large otter. and sand. it gets everywhere. even a woman's crotch. and even a one as unbelievably tight as it gets.

#megamatzoballs
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
well. um. if you want to know the truth. im actually part of the team investigating you know who. and. it. um. it honestly felt like she had sand in her crotch. fine grain sand. gently abrasive. good. but still. she had a sand crotch.

#megamatzoballs

Annotation to Notes from Arlington # 65

This was written during my June Road trip


Well, since the relocation issue is settled, my figuring is that I might as well make a road trip out of my relocation back to Las Vegas.




...

I'm moving back in with my mother. I'm not going to hang out or set up in Tennessee, I'll probably reapply at UNLV when I get there, and find work.

...

I'm a coin laundry in Hohenwald, Tennessee, drying my clothes. I threw away 2 boxes of, I guess, just stuff, I'm continuing toward Nashville.

...

Archived Content 10/12/2022 07:38 PM

...

I have a little over an hour before I should be checking out of this motel, I really don't have any money right now for another day. On the one hand there's this idea that the easiest thing to do would be to head back to Texas, I wouldn't have to go through this whole relocation headache yet again. I dropped all of my classes at UTA, and this is bad, of course, but it might be forgivable. On the other hand, I have a feeling that there's some reason for all of this traveling and shit that I've been doing lately, I really should be leaving Texas, but where the hell do I go? This area is just fine for finding work and setting up my business, and it's a kind of low cost of living area, I think. The issue with staying here is that when I think about relocating, I start thinking that I can really relocate to pretty much anywhere. Or to put it another way, when I think about relocating, I could probably find something that's slightly more ideal than this particular place.

...

So what are my plans now? I wouldn't mind hanging out here in Somerville, but, I eventually have to go back to school. I have to be in a city where I can find work, transfer into a new college, somewhere that's somewhat inexpensive, and that I can set up my business. I'm somewhat skeptical that I'll be able to transfer to a new college, given that I basically didn't accomplish anything during my first semester at UTA. This was a fucking disaster.

I found it hard to get anything done. The reason I wanted to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource for the course was because the Bloomberg Market Concepts Certification course was part of the Student Managed Investment Fund's requirements. I found the Bloomberg Terminal kind of complex to use, at first, but once I got the hang of it, I found it extremely useful.

Most of the analytical crap you would do in Excel, or in some other is stuff you can do in the Bloomberg Terminal by pressing the correct button, or, if you have some other formula or algorithm that you're working with, you can just plug it into the Bloomberg Terminal. There seemed to be this obsession with exporting data from the Bloomberg Terminal to work with it in Excel or some other software program to do some kind of analytical shit, but, it just seemed like an unnecessary extra step.

Anyway, I dropped my classes, and I'll see about getting into a college, or transferring into a college somewhere in Tennessee. It's 3:56 AM and I'm really fucking hungry, luckily for me, nothing is fucking open. I'm thinking that, okay. so. I can't really head back to Texas for whatever various reasons that prevent me from heading back there. I can't go back, and that's that.

I'm trying to think about what the hell went wrong there. Well, I guess I owe a bunch of money and didn't even so much as finish my classes.

...

Postcards from Somerville, Tennessee 38068 

...

I don't completely remember what set me off on that First road trip in June, or the one in February, or any of these road trips. Maybe I was thinking about relocating. I don't remember. I think that I'm going to relocate this time, but what the hell am I going to do for work? How the hell do I get set up in a new town? I need to find work, and an apartment. I minute ago I was thinking about heading back to Texas, but I really can't head back to Texas.

I'm thinking.

...

Notes Taken During My First Semester at the University of Texas at Arlington

...

Annotation to Notes from Arlington # 65

This was written during my June Road trip. It's September 25th, 2022, and I'm back in Tennessee. 

...

i stayed in Somerville tn for a night. im in the next town over, and i already feel like just staying here.

...

today is sunday. my thinking is that the roads should be empty, and it would be a good idea to keep driving.

...

i cant really go back to texas anyway. but i dont really know where to go.

...

maybe it was just time to leave texas. i had been there for 2 years. maybe it was just time for me to go. i really don't know what to do about college though.

...

i think that im just going to relocate. 
i'm on the Arkansas side of Memphis. 
i honestly don't know where the hell to go.

Everywhere is a fucking nightmare.
the nightmare never ends.
I really can't go back to Texas.

I have to leave texas. I really do.
I don't really know where to go, though.
this was a fabulous waste of money.

I threw away as much of my stuff as I could.
and threw away additional stuff on my way here.

I'll probably throw away 
additional stuff here 
and there
on my way to where 
ever the hell I end up.

i don't really know where 
the fuck to go at
this point.

I'm facing one frustration after another.

...

I'm really having a hard time getting my business in a more formalized state. I have the various things that I need to do on my calendar, but, sometimes there is no telling if I will get anything done or not, or if I'll get distracted by this or that issue, or, you know, who knows what will happen. I'm still facing a number of different challenges. and stuff. You know, like this and that stuff.

...

Class Notes Starting September 14th, 2022

one thing that I often face that impedes my ability to get anything done is the avalanche of emails that I have to deal with, or that fall into my mail box. I obviously don't read them all, but I usually scan them to see if they contain anything important.

...

Thinking. I'm going to hold off on looking for work right now. or looking for an internship or anything like that.

I really should just be focusing on school right now.


...

what else is on my mind? Just facing quite a few challenges lately. It seems as though everywhere I go, someone or another tries to instigate a reaction. and it isn't always clear to me why.

...

June
July 
and 
August

were kind of a blur

same for the first part of September. I think that I went on four road trips this year. really long fucking road trips.

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 68

I better not buy anything that I don't need. I thought about buying a few wallets online, but I'm going to hold off on that for now.

Annotation to Notes from Arlington, Texas # 68

I really spent way too much money during these last few months. I really need to make my best effort to stay in school, otherwise I'm more or less fucked.

and again.

I really don't know how I'll be able to balance working and going to college at the same time. This might be a pain in the neck, but I also might be able to make this happen. Who knows.

...

















...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

I really don't want to wear hats anymore. I feel like they give me a headache. One thing I realize from being in Texas for several years now, is that, it's hot, and humid, and it's really easy to get sweaty and smelly.

...

I would like to think up a new series title, but I really can't come up with anything. I really can't think of anything.

...

This is where the orange juice 
sends the lemonade to the martini. 
this is where the mimosa and the 
mojito drink and eat and feel 
the ends of the earth.

...

okay, so here is the issue. currently. i might be able to get some work done, but i'm not entirely sure about that. it's fifty-fifty.

...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

it can be kind of difficult to get anything done around here. a total fucking nightmare. I doubt that any of us can really get anything done.


it's kind of such a nightmare. to get anything done/ it can



\

Placeholder, still h

...

im not an indolent moron, nor am i an insolent ingrate. im tired. thats it. i guess it's a smoking room.

i ended up smoking in the room anyway. dont worry. i didnt have any fucking food. so i ate the nearest thing available. 

anyway. i know it took me a while to return to dallas, but, i figured that time was not of the essence, since compound interest is the most powerful force in the universe.

however. i have to figure something out. i cant find my fucking calculator. i havent upgraded since 1989. i dont even know if i still have that thing. shit.

...

always. if i visit Kentucky. i invariably manage to take the route back to dallas that passes through nashville. or vice versa, like last month.

...

This is the Third Time, September 3rd, 2022

anyway.

kenneth larot yamat is currently subject to a nondisclosure agreement with an undisclosed party.

should any specific remarks be made about his complete inability to perform cunnilingus from monday 7:02 AM to monday 7:77 AM be discussed with anyone other than the appropriate parties invloved, he will be in violation of said non-disclosure agreement, the breach of which will require significant compensation in the form of additional specific performance of additional cunnilingus or additional performance based compensation in the form of substantially more intense cunnilingus for the remainder of the current artistic performance of completely unsatisfactory cunnilingus, requiring an additional cunnilingus session performed with all deliberate haste.

should he smell like anything other than pussy juice upon his return to his current residence, he will be subject to nothing less than multiple additional performances of additional cunnilingus. 

...

some young man made a defamatory remark a while ago. young. but thats the way it goes for kids his age. well. he left. so.

well. any chance he could. you know. he is.

...

i dont know whats up. but. i think someone out there is accomplishment blocking me. i tried to head back to texas so that i could attend class in person, however, as soon as i left indiana, there was a fucking monsoon, or fucking invasion from outer space consisting primarily of rain drops, which kept falling on my head. so i put on my hat.

i dont feel like drowning to death. right now. i asked the sheriff for directions, he said theres a hotel in the big city. i got there. and there was no hotel. i guess i should have asked the deputy, but either he didnt have a deputy, or the deputy was in invisible mode. so.

...

When I think about. I don't know what to say.

this is the third road trip in 3 months. i'm tired. and. im just so irritable.

i want to be nice, but, sometimes i end up in places i dont really want to be.

i really don't want to withdraw from school. i think that the discipline i'm pursuing is an important one.

i just don't know why i face the challenges that i face.

but this third road trip. really. even though it has been a nightmare, i don't think that the outcome will be as terrible as.

i just don't know what to say.

i really want to finish the program. im heading all the way back to texas. again.







...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...



...



Back Home, September 9th, 2022

Back Home, September 9th, 2022

i dont know what happened the other day. but i seemed to have irritated the bartender at this pizza place i went to. i really didn't understand what happened.

she seemed upset about something. she said that she wanted me to leave. so i paid and left.

a guy chased after me, and said: "No one here thinks that's funny."

and i still have no idea what i did, or what offense i committed.

i remember, i asked where the basil was, and a woman behind me said:

"the toppings are placed underneath the cheese here."

and i responded: "you're right about that, i've eaten here before."

and then i just sort of went at it with my pizza,

and then the bartender became upset.

my nails were dirty, really dirty, and i was eating two slices of pizza at a time. like a pig.

and maybe that was the thing, she was irritated that i was eating like a pig.

but.

i think that i was eating with a fork and knife first, and then
i started eating with my hands.

maybe i should just change my major or something.

i really fucking wanted to go to school, but, i don't really know what the hell to do.

...




...



...

Notes, Thoughts, and Reflections While Using the Bloomberg Terminal 





...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...

Class Notes Starting September 14th, 2022

one thing that I often face that impedes my ability to get anything done is the avalanche of emails that I have to deal with, or that fall into my mail box. I obviously don't read them all, but I usually scan them to see if they contain anything important.

...

Thinking. I'm going to hold off on looking for work right now. or looking for an internship or anything like that.

I really should just be focusing on school right now.


...

what else is on my mind? Just facing quite a few challenges lately. It seems as though everywhere I go, someone or another tries to instigate a reaction. and it isn't always clear to me why.

...

June
July 
and 
August

were kind of a blur

same for the first part of September. I think that I went on four road trips this year. really long fucking road trips.



...

















...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

I really don't want to wear hats anymore. I feel like they give me a headache. One thing I realize from being in Texas for several years now, is that, it's hot, and humid, and it's really easy to get sweaty and smelly.

...

I would like to think up a new series title, but I really can't come up with anything. I really can't think of anything.

...

This is where the orange juice 
sends the lemonade to the martini. 
this is where the mimosa and the 
mojito drink and eat and feel 
the ends of the earth.

...

okay, so here is the issue. currently. i might be able to get some work done, but i'm not entirely sure about that. it's fifty-fifty.

...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

it can be kind of difficult to get anything done around here. a total fucking nightmare. I doubt that any of us can really get anything done.


it's kind of such a nightmare. to get anything done/ it can



\

Placeholder, still h

...

im not an indolent moron, nor am i an insolent ingrate. im tired. thats it. i guess it's a smoking room.

i ended up smoking in the room anyway. dont worry. i didnt have any fucking food. so i ate the nearest thing available. 

anyway. i know it took me a while to return to dallas, but, i figured that time was not of the essence, since compound interest is the most powerful force in the universe.

however. i have to figure something out. i cant find my fucking calculator. i havent upgraded since 1989. i dont even know if i still have that thing. shit.

...

always. if i visit Kentucky. i invariably manage to take the route back to dallas that passes through nashville. or vice versa, like last month.

...

This is the Third Time, September 3rd, 2022

anyway.

kenneth larot yamat is currently subject to a nondisclosure agreement with an undisclosed party.

should any specific remarks be made about his complete inability to perform cunnilingus from monday 7:02 AM to monday 7:77 AM be discussed with anyone other than the appropriate parties invloved, he will be in violation of said non-disclosure agreement, the breach of which will require significant compensation in the form of additional specific performance of additional cunnilingus or additional performance based compensation in the form of substantially more intense cunnilingus for the remainder of the current artistic performance of completely unsatisfactory cunnilingus, requiring an additional cunnilingus session performed with all deliberate haste.

should he smell like anything other than pussy juice upon his return to his current residence, he will be subject to nothing less than multiple additional performances of additional cunnilingus. 

...

some young man made a defamatory remark a while ago. young. but thats the way it goes for kids his age. well. he left. so.

well. any chance he could. you know. he is.

...

i dont know whats up. but. i think someone out there is accomplishment blocking me. i tried to head back to texas so that i could attend class in person, however, as soon as i left indiana, there was a fucking monsoon, or fucking invasion from outer space consisting primarily of rain drops, which kept falling on my head. so i put on my hat.

i dont feel like drowning to death. right now. i asked the sheriff for directions, he said theres a hotel in the big city. i got there. and there was no hotel. i guess i should have asked the deputy, but either he didnt have a deputy, or the deputy was in invisible mode. so.

...

When I think about. I don't know what to say.

this is the third road trip in 3 months. i'm tired. and. im just so irritable.

i want to be nice, but, sometimes i end up in places i dont really want to be.

i really don't want to withdraw from school. i think that the discipline i'm pursuing is an important one.

i just don't know why i face the challenges that i face.

but this third road trip. really. even though it has been a nightmare, i don't think that the outcome will be as terrible as.

i just don't know what to say.

i really want to finish the program. im heading all the way back to texas. again.







...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...



...



Back Home, September 9th, 2022

Back Home, September 9th, 2022

i dont know what happened the other day. but i seemed to have irritated the bartender at this pizza place i went to. i really didn't understand what happened.

she seemed upset about something. she said that she wanted me to leave. so i paid and left.

a guy chased after me, and said: "No one here thinks that's funny."

and i still have no idea what i did, or what offense i committed.

i remember, i asked where the basil was, and a woman behind me said:

"the toppings are placed underneath the cheese here."

and i responded: "you're right about that, i've eaten here before."

and then i just sort of went at it with my pizza,

and then the bartender became upset.

my nails were dirty, really dirty, and i was eating two slices of pizza at a time. like a pig.

and maybe that was the thing, she was irritated that i was eating like a pig.

but.

i think that i was eating with a fork and knife first, and then
i started eating with my hands.

maybe i should just change my major or something.

i really fucking wanted to go to school, but, i don't really know what the hell to do.

...




...



...

Notes, Thoughts, and Reflections While Using the Bloomberg Terminal 





...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 67

I should. well.

...

Annotation to Notes from Arlington, Texas # 67

I don't remember what I was going through when I wrote this particular note. Maybe I was in a state of confusion or something. or Maybe I was thinking about something else. I don't really know.

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 66

That was a nightmare. I went on this strange road-trip, crossing nearly a jillion states, I ended up in the psychiatric hospital on a court ordered mental health hold. Something similar to a 51-50 in California. and now I'm back home.

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 66

...

What is the deal right now. This is an annotation to Notes from Arlington, Texas # 66. I'm thinking. This was a note from a while ago. I think this was after the June Road Trip. These road trips were interesting. A nightmare, but interesting as well.

...

September 20th, 2022

51.00 + 65.00

"The brunette bartender at the Restaurant on Collins Boulevard"


her name is katie, and i distinctly remember her having 

blonde hair the last time i came here

this time she berates me for my behavior the last time

i came here, so are 

you going to sit at a booth the next time

you get irritated, 

or are you going to stay where you are?

i tell her i'll stay where I am,

still minutes later. no food. i'm really hungry.

starving. even

she has knockers and she's on collins

i order a bicardi

katie berates me for not having


for having taken a seat elsewhere the last time I was here

i order a tray of 6 naked wings,

but when they arrive they are drenched in
a sweet red sauce?
what is this?

what could this be?
it's sauce!

attitude.
she has an attitude.

it's not that i'm lacking in gratitude.
i'm hungry.

unlike the last time i was here I ate more than
enough.

and you still haven't visted the location in Dallas

the location in dallas is where the largest location is
really. you won't believe how amazing it is.
the largest in the united states, maybe even the world!

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 65

06/15/2022 08:32 PM

...

I'm in fucking Nashville.

* * *

it's a constant recalibration of what i need to do. filing for unemployment is a total waste of time. filing an unemployment insurance claim is a total waste of time. my claim never gets approved. nightmare. so what the hell do i do?

* * *

There is an issue of. i need to have enough student loan money to cover living expenses. i really don't want to resort to taking out private fucking student loans.

* * *

this is a nightmare. i think that i'll either. i think that i'll file the unemployment claim. and the disability claim.

i'm looking at my electricity bill. 55 fucking kilowatt hours! 10 dollars and 55 fucking cents. i'm home all the time now. so. i just have to figure out what the hell to do over the next few. hell. there really is no telling how long this is going to take. to find work.

if i do have to relocate. yeah. i don't really know.

* * *

i don't know if i should file an additional unemployment claim or what.

* * *

large butts. are part of the large butt industrial complex. small butts. are part of the small butt industrial complex. there are different industries. and there are different industrial complexes. that's just more or less the way that it is. that is more or less the way that it goes. there is something that i was thinking about.

* * *

sometimes designs put us at odds with one another. sometimes designs intentionally put us at odds with one another. i get that quiet spaces are needed. i remember. i found it difficult to accept a work from home position. because. me neighborhood was just too noisy at the time. it was hard to accept calls. it was hard to concentrate on work. it was hard to focus. sometimes it can be hard to focus. sometimes it can be hard to get things done when it's noisy. does it really enhance your concentration. well. who know. i do. i really do need to make a living. and. right now. i just don't think that i can do that. 

i think. it's a conspiracy on the part of the sell things industrial complex. i think that it's part of the industrial goods industrial complex. you have a problem. and we have the solution. i do not want all old things. i want all new things. i don't want a single new thing. i want all old things. i do not want anything other than high prices antiques that are sold by the most respectable antique dealers. and that's the only thing that i want. antiques. antiques. respectable. respectable. 

i remember. there were a few times when i worked in an office setting. and. it was noisy. and. in those cases. i was the noisy one.

* * *

i'm trying to compile my posts for Letters from Sanford Street. and this is the kind of thing that will take some time. what else was i trying to do? well. there was something that i needed to work on, but for some reason. it seems to have slipped my mind. i don't know how to deal with this kind of thing. it's possible that. he might just be trying to get an interview done or something. i have no idea. but he just left. and now this is easier.

i get. i understand that we don't always have our own private work spaces. we don't all have our own offices. and. these quite spaces are really needed. i get that.

part of the reason that i do conduct business. i do work from home when as far as work pertains to Chestnut + Hazel. is because i really don't have money for an office. not right now. any maybe the work from home thing does come with opportunities that can change things.

i think about the people who started businesses in their dorm room. or people who started businesses in their garage.

* * *

it doesn't take long for quiet spaces to become loud spaces. quiet spaces. everyone needs them. i think this guy is from the walking advertisement industrial complex.

* * *

i have to look for something. i have to look for a position. not because i need the money, but because it's relevant to what i want to accomplish. but the only think i really want to accomplish is to have more money.

* * *

i liquidated nearly everything in my robinhood account. i don't think that i would have ever done that. really. i thought that i would just be able to hold down a job. but i actually can't. i can't hold down a job. everyone picks on me. and this is true no matter where i work.

i have to think about what my next moves are. because this is a nightmare. i don't know if i'll be able to find work. or what. or what kind of work or employment i should be looking for.

* * *

alright. well I guess that's over. what a total nightmare. but right now. i really don't know what to do for work.

* * *

it wasn't too far back that i really felt that things were getting better. but they continue to be a disaster. what the hell do i need to do.

* * *

These last few days have been extremely challenging for me. Everything feels like a kind of sensation overload, and I have to look for work, again.

* * *


Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
9m
make a reference to the original. make an attribution. and make a contribution by making a slight change.

think about the original sin of mankind. make a slight change. then make a contribution of your own. you'll have fun. but this assertion is not guaranteed.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
12m
have you ever tasted how so many things taste similar to one another. this one iPhone had a very similar taste to this generic smart phone i was licking earlier. can you taste the difference? i couldn't! i'm embarrassed and i feel like i have no taste.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
14m
maybe we can collect all of the artifacts that the people all over the universe are collecting. if others collect them. then we too should collect them. in many ways. this is a good thing. in other ways. it's something other than a good thing.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
15m
there is an ongoing twitter conflict between the freudians and the hubbardians. this sort of thing will never end. is it all in your mind. or is it all in your head. this debate will never end.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
16m
orange juice is made from squeezed oranges. lemonade is made from squeeze lemons.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
there really is no such thing as a free lunch. but these tweet is free. 

eat my tweet.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
i met a man from an antique land who said. that upon his ball sack. these cock rings appear.

i told him it's wrong to use a cock ring for his ball sack. it's better to use a ball ring.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
what color are your balls. well. you wouldn't know unless you opened your scrotum and checked.

and don't think you can trick me by painting your balls. or dying them red. neptune is an even bluer big ball with a ball ring.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
sputnik was the first man made ball of steel to circle an even greener. and even bluer ball. the earth is a big blue ball.

think of the white ball. and think of the red ball. tonight. we dine at the pub. tonight we play pool.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
balls. inside of an even bigger. translucent ball. and your balls are numbered. 

because we're playing bingo. what did you think we were doing.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
balls. inside of a netted sack.

i think. therefore. that these are onions.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
and on that pedestal. massive stone balls appear.

and on those pedestals. these massive stone balls appear.

do they have names. I don't think they do.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
i think. i dont really know. spam. maybe. ham. maybe. green apples and spam. what do you think.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
large balls. stone balls. concrete spheres mounted on cubes outside of city hall.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
everything is a headache. and everything else is a nightmare.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
but everything is kind of uncertain. onions and maybe some kind of sauce.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
pencils and pens and notebooks. a laptop a tablet. maybe a new phone.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
pencils and pens and notebooks. a laptop a tablet. maybe a new phone.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
... well. i guess she's off the market now. and i guess its no skin off my cock.

#megamatzoballs
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
... she said something about the beach and a fish net g string and a large otter. and sand. it gets everywhere. even a woman's crotch. and even a one as unbelievably tight as it gets.

#megamatzoballs
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
well. um. if you want to know the truth. im actually part of the team investigating you know who. and. it. um. it honestly felt like she had sand in her crotch. fine grain sand. gently abrasive. good. but still. she had a sand crotch.

#megamatzoballs

Annotation to Notes from Arlington # 65

This was written during my June Road trip

Postcards from Tennessee # 1 

...

Photo Dump

...

Butter is not the Answer # 2

this ia going to be post cards from Tennessee even though.im not really in Tennessee.

I've been at this rest stop nearly a thousand times back and forth and back and forth across the mid west and over and over and it never ends.

...

im at this reat atop ive been to before.

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 2 

...

So, settling down in Tennessee isn't going to happen. I think I'm in Illinois. I need to find my nail clipper.

...



this ia going to be post cards from Tennessee even though.im not really in Tennessee.

I've been at this rest stop nearly a thousand times back and forth and back and forth across the mid west and over and over and it never ends.

...

im at this reat atop ive been to before.

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 2 

...

So, settling down in Tennessee isn't going to happen. I think I'm in Illinois. I need to find my nail clipper.

...




















I have an idea. I need a residential address, and that was the purpose of the apartment on Sanford Street, although, I also lived there too. I mean, I'm moving back in with my mom, but, not really. I'll head back to Las Vegas. but I think that I'm also going to head back to Texas to set up Chestnut + Hazel, LLC while I'm still more or less a resident of Texas. One thing about trying to register in Tennessee was that you're required to be a resident of Tennessee to register an LLC in the State of Tennessee, I figure that it's the same in Texas. Kenneth Larot Yamat dba Chestnut + Hazel, and Chestnut + Hazel, Sole Proprietorship (SP) will still continue to exist, albeit separately from Chestnut + Hazel, LLC.

...

I wonder. like. what happens next? I'm heading back to Las Vegas, but what happens next? once I get there? what happens?

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 3 

...

Butter is not the Answer # 3 

...
































The Brunette Bartender at the Restaurant on Collins Boulevard (2022)

her name is katie b, and i distinctly remember her having
blonde hair the last time i came here
this time she berates me for my behavior the last time
i came here, so are 
you going to sit at a booth the next time
you get irritated, 
or are you going to stay where you are?
i tell her i'll stay where I am,
still minutes later. no food. i'm really hungry.
starving. even
she has knockers and she's on collins
i order a bicardi
katie berates me for not having

for having taken a seat elsewhere the last time I was here
i order a tray of 6 naked wings,
but when they arrive they are drenched in
a sweet red sauce?
what is this?
what could this be?
it's sauce!
attitude.
she has an attitude.

it's not that i'm lacking in gratitude.
i'm hungry.
unlike the last time i was here I ate more than
enough.
and you still haven't visted the location in Dallas

the location in dallas is where the largest location is
really. you won't believe how amazing it is.
the largest in the united states, maybe even the world!

what happened. well i freaked out the
first time i went to the restaurant
some guy at the bar started talking to me
and i asked if i could sit somewhere else
and it wasn't really the issue with the
bartender it was the issue of the guy at the bar
who would not stop asking me questions

in retrospect i realize that these are kind
of normal social interactions, but maybe
i just wasn't in the mood to engage in
a conversation with anyone at that particular
moment in time.

...

and so, now I backtrack. I head all the way back to Tarrant County, and then I head to Vegas. I feel like my life is nothing but a series of going in one fucking direction, and then back-tracking. Let's just figure out this dba bullshit first.

i have 2 fucking days.

I have to head all the way back to Tarrant County, and then figure out where to go from there. I mean. I guess I'll head over to Vegas. I mean, I have to figure out the whole school thing, and I really think it might be easier to just go to UTA, and somehow, you know, express the extraordinary challenges that I've faced these last few weeks.

...

I can file the dba forms with the Secretary of State first, and then the dba forms for Tarrant County afterward, once I'm in Tarrant County. I'll head out now. I'm really tired, and I would just like to get some rest, but, this is something that I do need to get done before I head to Las Vegas.

...

I feel funny about going back to Texas, and honestly, I don't really want to go back to Texas, at all.

...

and when I think about it, this is quite a bit of work for what is more or less a pen name.

...

Oh god, I have to actually be in Tarrant County Texas to register the dba, no joke, there is an option to file by mail, rather than in-person at the Tarrant County Courthouse, or at a sub-courthouse, but you need a notary that is in Tarrant County

...

So a dba is sometimes called an fictitious name, a fictitious business name, or in the case of Texas, an assumed name. In Texas, there's a requirement to file an assumed name, or a dba, with the Secretary of State, as well as with the County Recorder that you're doing business in.

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 4 

...

Butter is not the Answer # 4 

...



























































I really don't see myself ever going back to the Dallas / Fort Worth area, but it's possible that one circumstance or another might lead me right back there. It was one circumstance or another that brought me to the Dallas / Fort Worth area in the first place, maybe one circumstance or another might bring me back there, but I really don't see that happening.

Who knows what could happen between now and December? Anything in the universe could happen between now and December, and so it might make sense for me to keep my options open, and that's kind of why I'm seeking "incompletes" for my courses, rather than withdrawing from the courses completely and dropping out of the MSQF program. 

While I'm here in Las Vegas I should probably find work. One of the issues about finding work here in Las Vegas is that once I start looking for work and once I start really setting myself up here in Las Vegas, it becomes less and less likely that I'll return to Dallas / Fort Worth. I didn't really have anything going on for me, other than graduate school, that was really keeping me in Dallas / Fort Work, and I was facing a number of issues in addition to not really being able to get anything done in terms of course work and in terms of studying, I had a number of problems going on that I really would rather not mention.

...

📮5892 Losee RD STE 132 PMB 176, North Las Vegas, NV 89081-6200 📧 info@chestnutandhazel.com ☎+1-816-724-5293

...

699419196923423523
568948319769000067
918377665423331233
349305523412341234
556667887429478623
457324593245582235
632347518234575054
533534364784058713

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 12 

...

457324593245582235
180719869712633802
198468402873748397
892374992348792340
479012765681273942

...

Butter is not the Answer # 12

...

I can file the dba forms with the Secretary of State first, and then the dba forms for Tarrant County afterward, once I'm in Tarrant County. I'll head out now. I'm really tired, and I would just like to get some rest, but, this is something that I do need to get done before I head to Las Vegas.

...

I feel funny about going back to Texas, and honestly, I don't really want to go back to Texas, at all.

...

and when I think about it, this is quite a bit of work for what is more or less a pen name.

...

Oh god, I have to actually be in Tarrant County Texas to register the dba, no joke, there is an option to file by mail, rather than in-person at the Tarrant County Courthouse, or at a sub-courthouse, but you need a notary that is in Tarrant County

...

So a dba is sometimes called an fictitious name, a fictitious business name, or in the case of Texas, an assumed name. In Texas, there's a requirement to file an assumed name, or a dba, with the Secretary of State, as well as with the County Recorder that you're doing business in.

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 4 

...

Butter is not the Answer # 4 

...



























































I'm going to complete the assumed name / dba paperwork when I get into town. I left in kind of a hurry, and, it's like I'm just going right the fuck back there. I should throw away additional shit. My car is way too full. Archived Content 10/14/2022 05:30 PM 

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 5 

...

Butter is not the Answer # 5 

...



















The dba is just a Pen Name, or pseudonym that I use as a blogger, but it's also the name of the blog, and the web domain, and, it's also kind of a business name, under which I perform the business of blogging. So, I registered.

When my mom said I can move back in, I thought maybe I could try my luck in Tennessee, but I'll hold off on that idea for now. LaVergne is the place I considered. mostly because it's between Murfreesboro and Nashville. Archived Content 10/14/2022 05:29 PM 

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 6 

...

Butter is not the Answer # 6 

...




Postcards from Tennessee # 7 

...

Butter is not the Answer # 7 

I stated in Gallup, New Mexico for just one night, I hung out with one of the locals, and I really think that I liked her. I really would have considered staying in Gallup, New Mexico, still. I'm not sure what I would have done for work, or where I would have stayed or, whatever. There was something interesting at the hotel I stayed at. The hotel was actually somewhat fancy, and some of the other hotels in the area, the ones that seemed abandoned, or worn down, or otherwise kind of lousy, were the ones I really wanted to stay at. I wanted to stay at a cheaper motel, or cheaper hotel or something that was cheap, and also looked cheap. The desk agent was actually a person who was telecommuting.

I'm in Gallup, New Mexico. This seems like a tourist destination, but, it also seems like a college town too.

Annotation written on 10/09/2022 @ 05:29 PM

I really thought about staying here. 
or
I really thought about staying in 
Gallup, New Mexico. They have
a University there, and I really
thought about relocating to that
area.

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 9 

...







Postcards from Tennessee # 10 

...







I have to think about something. I'm just trying to get my thoughts together. I applied for a few positions, but just 2, and I'm kind of wondering if I should send out a whole bunch right away, of if I should just send out a few here and there. So I applied for 3 positions today. I really don't know what to do about college. I set up my account for handling the student loans I took out for my first semester, but I'll look further into it later. There is one position that I saw open that I'm interested in, and, it's kind of in the same building that, uh. you know. i don't know. maybe i'll apply there anyway.

When popcorn seems like it doesn't have any flavor, be sure to taste it first, it might, in fact, taste like something, and if it tastes like something, then, by definition, it has flavor, even if it's not a very exciting one, but be aware: butter is never the answer!

There was stuff here before, and most of it was photographs that I collected from various social media sites and apps that I collected and posted here, but these things are silly, and butter, is still not the answer.

When you stare at a baked potato full of sour cream and sprinkled with cheese of this or that type, chives, green onions, maybe even cilantro; you should be aware of the fact that you are at liberty to taste the baked potato, but know this: butter is never the answer!

When you try to put a mushroom in a hamburger and things don't seem to be going as smoothly as you anticipated, know that you can use whatever you need to use in order to reduce whatever kind of friction you happen to be dealing with, use oil, because butter is not the answer.

There are times when butter is in fact the answer, but the circumstances where butter is the answer are rare. Suppose you're taking a multiple choice test and the question is: what's the answer? If the choices include: A) butter then it's possible that butter is the answer.

The other day I was collecting bottle caps from a trash can in a secluded back alley when two men with massive beards approached me, attempting to steal my bottle cap collection; the two men were carrying large sticks of butter that were sharpened with a butter stick sharpener.

Someone asked me about my clogged arteries and why they're so damn clogged up and I just had to respond to this person as directly and as honestly as I could, and I straight up told this person the honest truth: they're clogged, but butter is not the reason they're clogged.

I just applied for a position here in Las Vegas, and, I'll continue to look for work. I don't think that I'll be heading back to Arlington, it just seems like it's really not going to happen. I'm putting a few other things on the back burner for now. Like continuing to work on Chestnut + Hazel, more specifically, business registration aspects of it. I tried looking for positions at Amazon, but there was nothing available in the area. I was thinking that, since it's somewhat easy to transfer between locations with Amazon, that maybe I'd get in at a location here, and then, if something were to bring me back to Dallas / Fort Worth, that maybe I'd transfer back there. There's just nothing really in Dallas / Fort Worth, though, other than college, and even that was kind of falling apart. 

I did file a copyright for a few of my posts from the Letters from Sanford Street series, I used the "Online Literary Works" form, and it was somewhat more involved than using the Standard Registration process, but it does allow me to have claims on each individual post, rather than having a single claim one gigantic series. In this specific case, even though there is a single application for the 14 posts that I registered, each post is registered as part of a larger registration, using the previous method that I used, I would have to compile all the posts into a single post, and then register that single post as a "Collective Work" that I'd have a claim on. This distinction probably isn't obvious to someone who doesn't register copyrights, but an analogy that might make this easier to understand, is that it's like having 14 different deeds to 14 different 1 acre plots of land, rather than having 1 deed to a single 14 acre plot of land.

I also set up a mailbox at the UPS Store for my business, Chestnut + Hazel, and, even though I'm putting off registering the business in Clark County for the time being, I'm sure that I'll come around to it at some point.

I have to think about something. I'm just trying to get my thoughts together. I applied for a few positions, but just 2, and I'm kind of wondering if I should send out a whole bunch right away, of if I should just send out a few here and there. So I applied for 3 positions today. I really don't know what to do about college. I set up my account for handling the student loans I took out for my first semester, but I'll look further into it later. There is one position that I saw open that I'm interested in, and, it's kind of in the same building that, uh. you know. i don't know. maybe i'll apply there anyway.

When popcorn seems like it doesn't have any flavor, be sure to taste it first, it might, in fact, taste like something, and if it tastes like something, then, by definition, it has flavor, even if it's not a very exciting one, but be aware: butter is never the answer!

There was stuff here before, and most of it was photographs that I collected from various social media sites and apps that I collected and posted here, but these things are silly, and butter, is still not the answer.

...

she actually really liked
you and it's obvious
that you really cared about
her even though she was
obviously a trouble maker
and she clearly would 
make life difficult for you
if she didn't get what she
wanted from you and now
you are out of college and
now you are lonely and now
you have to start all over again

an update to how things
are going right now. again
it seems I'm being demonetized
for something on my blog. I'm
getting rid of the suspected content
but there really wasn't anything
specific pointed out. and so
I'm going around deleting what
could be offensive.

it was weird. before i left she
came over and asked me to
take her out for dinner, and
i had been wanting to take her
out for dinner for a while. we
went out a few times. i don't 
think that she really liked me.
maybe she did, but i always
felt that she felt that she had
a better option, or that she liked
someone else more. sometimes
i'd be somewhere in the neighborhood
and then BANG she was there too.

we went to dinner. she came over
and asked me to take her out
to dinner, and we got into kind of
an argument when we were there.

and now the Nevada DMV website
is down, it's actually down and the
whole department is actually taking
time off until the issue is resolved.
so, even if I new what documents to
bring to a walk-in, i couldn't even
go if i wanted to because the offices
are closed.

i'm spending additional time cleaning up things here and
it just never seems to end there are so many
dirty things here that are not appropriate for the rules. the
rules
say that this stuff is not
okay
it is not okay to have yourself saying
and writing what you are saying and writing about

i went all the way across
town to go to a buffet called
imperial sushi and seafood.
it was a long drive. the food
was really nice, and, for 36
bucks it was worth the money,
but the drive was a nightmare.
maybe i just haven't ever been 
used to rush hour traffic. I don't
know why.

...

















...

Poem

Butter is not the Answer # 8

Slices of rye toast are so boring! I've tried pepper, and I've tried salt, and I've tried using egg yolks, and I've tried using hashbrowns and slices of rye toast are still really boring! I think rye toast is antithetical to an exciting breakfast: jam? BUTTER IS NOT THE ANSWER!

...

I went to the deli section of the grocery store and ordered ribs and a large order of corn. I'm full. Anyway, I applied at Amazon, what was strange was that they didn't have any positions the other day, and today that had several available. It's kind of easy to transfer from location to location at Amazon, so, this keeps open the possibility of heading back to Dallas / Fort Worth. Gasoline in the area is kind of expensive, nearly 6 dollars a gallon.

...



















What I'm trying to figure out right now is whether or not to get a Nevada Driver's License, and Nevada Plates. These are things that should be taken care of after moving to Nevada, but I'm not sure if I've really moved here. I'm not really sure if I've really "moved" to Nevada. 

...

A few hours ago, I went to the grocery store and bought a rotisserie chicken, and an order of potato salad, but I'm just not hungry enough to finish all of this. I have been gaining weight, and I have been getting fatter, but I've been a lot less hungry as well. I really need to get back to work. These last few months have been kind of a waste of time, if I think of them in terms of how they've added to my overall progress in life, but they've been interesting, and sometimes I think that maybe these interesting events in life, these interesting life events, do add to a person's overall life progress.

...

what the hell do I have to think of right now? i'm just worried about the future, but not in a way, where, i'm freaking out or losing my mind, or, where i feel like bad things are on the horizon. i guess i'm anxious about the future, and about what to do in the coming months. i start work on the 22nd, i don't anticipate anything going wrong. the idea of going back to dallas / fort worth and going back to school is somewhere in the back of my mind, but what is the most intelligent thing for me to do?

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 15 

...

Poem

Butter is not the Answer # 17

say whatever you
want about whatever
your opinion is, and when
you say it you can feel free
to say it at the top of
your lungs, but whatever
you say, and whatever
your point of view
is. just know that 
butter is not the answer.
it's not, it's really not the
answer.

...

Poem

Butter is not the Answer # 16

it's possible to drown most
of the problems of life, the struggles
the ups and downs, and even 
many of the sadnesses you face
with olive oil, and wine, and whine
but just be aware
of the fact that butter is not the answer.
you think that crispy chicken is 
created with the buttery goodness
of something other than lard and
hydrogenated soybean oil?
Think Again! It's something else!
not butter! butter is not the answer!

...

Poem

Butter is not the Answer # 15

there aren't very many questions
and there are even fewer qualified
answers to those questions and there
are even fewer answers that are valid
and true
and you know with
great certainty that
butter is not the answer

...

butter is not the answer, Butter Is Not The Answer, BUTTER IS NOT THE ANSWER!

...

Poem, Butter is not the Answer, Ken Yamat, Postcards from Tennessee # 15, Chestnut + Hazel, Cash Secured Puts, Chestnut and Hazel, #butterisnottheanswer, Archived Content 07032020 0624, Chestnut & Hazel, kenneth larot yamat, Kenneth Larot Yamat, Archived Content, archived content,

...

I while ago, and this was during one of my road trips, I was at a kind of shopping center, I wouldn't call it a mall because it wasn't all indoors, and I wouldn't call it an outlet shopping center, because, it really wasn't focused on discounts, but whatever it was, I really didn't go shopping, I spent my time going to the restaurants there. I think I went to three different restaurants, and at the last restaurant I went to there was this guy, an older man, and he was with his wife. I ordered a shot of gin, and, out of nowhere he says something like: "Gin, I haven't had gin since I was in my early twenties and vomited all over the place."

He was obviously trying to get a reaction out of me. I don't know what happened afterward, but there was kind of a discussion back and forth, and he eventually left, I'm not sure if he ordered anything, or if he was just loitering at the bar, pretending that he was going to spend a lot of money, and then, used his kind of, unpleasantness as a kind of pretext or reason for not ordering anything.

...

but I've noticed that over the past few months, that people at restaurants can be kind of. They interact with me in a way that suggests that they really don't want me there. or they want me to leave. I'm just there, and I'm just fucking eating.

...

but I think about different times, and different places that i've felt like i was being pushed out of. some things are related, and some things aren't. and trying to figure out which things are related, and which aren't related is something i kind of have to figure out.

...







The price of gasoline is ridiculously high in Las Vegas. I read that OPEC+ is cutting production in order to increase oil prices, and I'm sure that there are other variables as well. The gasoline prices that I encountered during my road trips was closer to 3.50 per gallon, and this was throughout the mid-west. It's just really high in Las Vegas.

I was looking for my nail clipper earlier, but I couldn't find it. I checked all my luggage and my car, and I must have lost it or left it somewhere. I need to keep my nails short. it's difficult to use my phone with long nails.

I have a bunch of stuff that I have to get rid of. For one reason or another I developed a habit of buying hammers or different designs and styles. I won't use most of these ever. I have no use for these.

Stay where the people are rather than
going to that place where the invisible
people are. That's where the nest is and
where the birds go.

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 16
Archived Content 10/13/2022 08:17 PM 

...

I have this issue where, I still come across the: ilovekristin@chestnutandhazel.com email, even in places where I really don't think I set it up. It happened just a few minutes ago. I've been using info@chestnutandhazel.com most of the time when setting up new accounts that require an email.

...

https://dmv.nv.gov/newresident.htm

...





I might be able to figure this out. I really think that I might be able to figure this out.

* * *

Okay. I think that I got it. I think I know what I have to do. 

Research:            Electives
                            Patent and Trademark Process

* * *

I have to look at this again.

* * *

What the hell do I have to do right now?

* * *

i'm thinking. I have a business. and I am a business owner. and I operate a business. It's called: Chestnut + Hazel. and it's an intellectual property business. and what i need to know is how to sell intellectual property.

i really don't need all this other information. I need to know how to sell copyrights.

* * *

what is the issue right now? it just feels like everything is falling apart. it really does. it really fucking does. and maybe. i'm responsible for all of this. and maybe. there were contributors.

* * *

I'm removing this idea. I'm thinking that. It would make more sense to patent an idea, and then sell the patent to a company that already has a business in place to market and distribute the product, rather than starting something from the ground up. It really makes more sense to approach it that way.

Selling Stuff Online / E-Commerce / Contemporary Verbiage of the Same

* * *

even though i'm making less money. i do have more time as a result, but this still feels like less time. or. it feels like it's not enough time. really. i just really hope that this. different trajectory that i'm taking actually gets me somewhere.

* * *

if i could explain my hesitance to spend any of my robinhood money it's this: like, my money is the only lifeboat i have. i can't beg other people for help. i would rather commit suicide. and i'm actually not even lying when i say that.

i would rather commit suicide than beg for help.

i'm just really sick of the non-stop difficulties that i face. it's like everything. every challenge i face forces me into some shitty ass corner. i'm hoping my shitty ass situation gets better. i'm sure it will improve, but i'm really facing shitty situations right now, and it's a fucking nightmare.

* * *

I really enjoy reading SPAM emails, but. right now. i really have no need whatsoever for no strings attached sexual encounters. even. even if these were actual offers of actual sexual encounters. that were actually. no. strings. attached.

aside from that. everything is a nightmare.

* * *

What else do I have to do?

* * *

Fermentation Apparatus
 Distillation Apparatus
Terrarium Contraption
Aquarium Contraption

* * *

Dealing with a number of difficulties at the moment. Everything is just. not very easy or straight-forward. everything is a nightmare. everything is diffuclt.

* * *

Google AdSense ad serving has been restricted on your site
Hello,
This message is to alert you that one of your sites is not currently in compliance with our AdSense Program policies and as a result, ad serving has been restricted on your site.
Ad serving has been restricted on: chestnutandhazel.com
Action required: If you have modified your site to be in compliance with our policies or you feel this restriction is in error, please visit the AdSense Policy Center to view this violation and request a review.
Current account status: Active
Restriction(s) explanation
"Adult: Sexual content":
Certain sources of advertising are restricted from appearing on content that:
contains nudity.
is sexually gratifying, sexually suggestive and/or intended to cause sexual arousal.
discusses sexual fetishes.
is about sexual entertainment.
promotes sexual merchandise.
facilitates affairs and/or sexual encounters.
provides advice regarding sexual performance.
promotes sexual enhancement medications or supplements.
Review the full restriction (including examples) in the Help Center.

Appeals
If you want to appeal this restriction, you can contact us via the AdSense Policy Center. Learn more about restricted ad serving.
Thanks for your cooperation.
Sincerely,
The Google AdSense Team

* * *

This was a Letter to the Editor submitted via the submissions gadget.

Hi,

A study found that 63 percent of people
(https://www.inc.com/minda-zetlin/63-percent-of-20-somethings-want-to-own-a-business.html)
in their 20s want to start a business. I think that’s great.

However, there’s a big difference between starting a business and starting
a successful business, and young people may not have the experience that
comes from years of working in a given industry to know what the signs of
trouble actually are.

I’d love to write about that for your website. I’ll put together an article
for young entrepreneurs with advice on how to turn their great idea into a
successful startup. I'd be happy to feature your website as well.

The article is completely complimentary. I have a great mentor, and I
simply want to pay it forward as much as I can.

Please let me know if you’re interested.

Thank you in advance!
Lucy Reed
lucy@gigmine.co

Regards,
Lucy Reed | lucy@gigmine.co

Note: This email was sent via the Contact Form gadget on
http://www.chestnutandhazel.com

* * *

[Chestnut + Hazel] New message received.

Blogger Contact Form <no-reply@blogger.com>
Mon, Jun 6, 12:31 AM (1 day ago)
to me, submissions

Hi,

A study found that 63 percent of people 
(https://www.inc.com/minda-zetlin/63-percent-of-20-somethings-want-to-own-a-business.html) 
in their 20s want to start a business. I think that’s great.

However, there’s a big difference between starting a business and starting 
a successful business, and young people may not have the experience that 
comes from years of working in a given industry to know what the signs of 
trouble actually are.

I’d love to write about that for your website. I’ll put together an article 
for young entrepreneurs with advice on how to turn their great idea into a 
successful startup. I'd be happy to feature your website as well.

The article is completely complimentary. I have a great mentor, and I 
simply want to pay it forward as much as I can.

Please let me know if you’re interested.

Thank you in advance!
Lucy Reed
lucy@gigmine.co

Regards,
Lucy Reed | lucy@gigmine.co

Note: This email was sent via the Contact Form gadget on 
http://www.chestnutandhazel.com


Kenneth Larot Yamat <submissions@chestnutandhazel.com>
Mon, Jun 6, 6:47 AM (1 day ago)
to Lucy

Greetings Lucy:

Sure, send me what you've got.

Sincerely,

Kenneth Larot Yamat

* * *

Yes! I was accepted to the University of Texas at Arlington! I figure the rest of this stuff out later. This will be awesome. Super awesome!

* * *

MFA = multi-factor authentication - I remember this meaning Master of Fine Arts

* * *

I was looking for something related to. I was trying to search for things re. I was trying to do a search for articles related to American Depository Receipts (ADRs) but what I was given was articles on Alternative Dispute Resolutions (ADR). I'll try this again later.

* * *

I want to register a copyright for danish cookie before i register innocuous posts

* * *

I changed my mind again, instead of using: #DanishCookieUxorious its going to be #DanishCookieUXorious

* * *

Need a computer with an optical drive - find out what is currently being used in terms of optical drives - figure out if they still exist.

compiled two sets of items that i'll register copyrights for when i get a chance.

* * *

megalodon shark - great white shark - killer whales - transient orcas - domestic orcas - may bifurcate into two species due to differences in orca culture - #danishcookieuxorious - as screenshots - as text - taschen - facebook album - pdf - screenshots - as a text file - encephelization quotient - brain weight to body weight however it's surface area adjusted - it's brain weigh to body weight and adjusted for surface area - emotional intelligence - speciaziation a sense of selfe consciousness - still angry about it - still angry about it and it's probably something i'll never let go of - i'm exaggerating - i don't know if there was something i was supposed to do - envelopes - charles babbage - open access academic journal - stock photograps - buy envelopes - reaserch and development tax credit - el castillo san felipe del morro san juan - digital marketing - scarface: need people like me point finger that's the bad guy - hot tub scene - computer optical drive large hard drive - donnie brasco someo ones going to get clipped gotta start earning - 

* * *

What gullible little shit
currently sucks upon your clit
- in re Horace via John Milton

* * *

Anyway. First issue is that I tried to transfer money from my Robinhood account, into my Citibank account, and I fat-fingered the transaction in the opposite direction. I sent money from my Citibank account to my Robinhood account. This is not a big deal, assuming I get paid this week.

* * *

What a pain in the neck. Stupid Spreadsheet. 

* * *

I bought a box of envelopes, and now I can't seem to find them.

* * *

I don't know what the hell to do about that. I was thinking about working on something right now. I don't remember. I don't. well. I do actually.

* * *

Objectives

    Copyrights:         innocuous posts 
                            Letters from Sanford Street
                            #DanishCookieUxorious
                            Notes from Arlington, Texas

    Patents:                Fermentation Apparatus
                             Distillation Apparatus

    Trademarks:        Chestnut + Hazel
                            Chestnut & Hazel
                            Chestnut and Hazel

    Research:            Electives
                            Patent and Trademark Process
                            Selling Stuff Online / E-Commerce / Contemporary Verbiage of the Same

    Tasks:                  Clean Up Google Photos

* * *

What the hell? these fucking things are jagged!

* * *

Let me think, just wait for the stuff I want to do, and then. I just really don't want to sell anything out of my Robinhood account. I don't want to sell anything out of my Robinhood account, any of my hobbies have to come out of my paychecks, and not my investments.

* * *

What do I have to deal with. Look, in this case. It really just makes more sense to wait to do a number of things that I want to do. In the mean time. it makes more sense just to do what I need, just the minimum amount of shit I need to survive for the time being, rather than blow all my money trying to do something potentially fruitless.

* * *

Wait until next week to do anything. This is just fucking ridiculous. 

* * *

The smartest thing to do for a number of things, is just wait until I get paid. I really don't want to take any more money from my Robinhood account. I really don't. So what do I have to deal with? just a few bullshits. I can't waste any money. I've already been doing that this entire month.

* * * 

In a lot of ways I kind of have to wait until next week to do a number of things. Well, I don't have to wait until next week. I simply have to. Well. I should wait until next week.

* * *

What the hell should I be working on right now?

* * *

there is a kind of workshop here in the Library. It's kind of neat. there are a bunch of different things that you can use to make things. like arts and crafts and stuff.

* * *

mass emails / patents / chemists / verbiage and dialect localization / contingent upon occupation / professional or occupation based localization / cosmetics / pharmaceuticals / beverages / agriculture / munitions / AWS / DEI = Diversity Equity and Inclusion 

* * *

I need to buy envelopes. what else. I kind of need to buy a battery for my car key, but I'm not really sure I'm going to worry about that.

One thing that is kind of cool about my new place of work, is that it is buy the University of Texas at Arlington Research Institute. I want to describe the area I work in as a kind of Industrial Park.

The thing I kind of want to patent is. and I honestly. I really don't have anything going on with it right now. is some kind of fermentation apparatus, you know:

A fucking home brew beer maker bullshit thing.

I want to check this place out, the Research Institute. 

I um. have or had this idea of: Chestnut + Hazel Laboratories, or Chestnut + Hazel Prototyping, or Chestnut + Hazel Research and Development, or Chestnut + Hazel Designs.

* * *

I have this idea for something I want to patent. It's nothing super interesting. I want to say that whatever it is that I'm going to make is a mere incremental improvement over an existing product.

* * * 

There was something that I was going to work on, but I don't know what it was.

Trademark

Patent

* * *

...

Poem

Butter is not the Answer # 17

These are basically the things I need in Life to Eat the
butter, but I already established that Butter is not the answer, and
yet you did not listen to me.

...

📮 5892 Losee Road Suite # 132 Private Mail Box # 176, North Las Vegas, Nevada 89081-6200 
📧 info@chestnutandhazel.com ‎‎‎‎‎☎ +1-816-724-5293

...

📮5892 Losee RD STE 132 PMB 176, North Las Vegas, NV 89081-6200 📧info@chestnutandhazel.com ‎‎☎+1-816-724-5293

When I think about it, I wonder what it would have been like to stay in Gallup, New Mexico, if I would have started a life out there. It wouldn't have been clear to me what I would have done for work, or if there really was any work out there for me to do. I'm still so unsure about this whole thing about being back in Nevada.

...

I ended up buying a new nail clipper when I went to the grocery store. There was one thing that was interesting when I went to the grocery store: there were large sections of the store that had locked cabinets. Even though the neighborhood I lived in when I was living in Arlington, TX was a neighborhood that I would think of as being, like a destitute neighborhood, I just didn't see as many things locked up in cabinets.

I changed the title series from "Postcards from Tennessee" to "Butter is not the Answer" and even though the title doesn't really follow conventional capitalization rules, I really don't want to capitalize "is not" and so I won't be capitalizing those words. There also might be an issue with this title change as well, but I'll worry about that later.

I updated my address on most things that I use regularly, but what else do I need to update my address on? I think that I've done it on most things. I returned my apartment key to the land lady. I closed my utilities contract with the energy provider. I mailed my mailbox key back to the Post Office.

...

Places that I think about. 
I might not see them again, 
but places that I've been to, 
that I might not see again, that 
I think about. Gallup, New Mexico, 
Somerville, Tennessee, and 
La Vergne, Tennessee.

These things have not been here 
the whole time, and they have 
not been the best of the best, and 
they have not been the sticks of the butter.

She asked me to send a photograph
of me, stroking a stick of butter, and
I had to tell the girl that it wasn't
really what she was after, and she
really did not want me to send her
a photograph
of me stroking a stick of butter.

What she really wanted was a video
of me making a duck bill with my hand
and sticking my duck bill hand into
a bowl of butter, sticks of butter
are not the answer!

Places that I think about. 
I might not see them again, 
but places that I've been to, 
that I might not see again, that 
I think about. Gallup, New Mexico, 
Somerville, Tennessee, and 
La Vergne, Tennessee.

and while some people wish upon a 
star, it's totally possible that I would
have to wish upon a stick of butter
and tell people that the butter, that
praying to a stick of butter, that
wishing upon a stick of butter is 
not the solution to the
it's not the solution to whatever issue
you are having.

...

One of the issues from the outset was figuring out how to divide the work, even then the other person didn't really want to divide in conquer, but rather, I would do everything, and she would just have the final say on everything.

If I were in a position where I were getting paid for whatever work I was doing, I wouldn't really give a shit, she could send everything back and I'd do it all over again, but I'm not okay with an arrangement like this in a situation where I'm basically paying to learn, and I'm getting bogged down by doing all the work, and then, doing all the work all over again just so some other person can claim to have had the leadership role in the project. Like fuck that. I just pray to fucking God that these student loans are forgiven, and I could just do something else.

I was using an external hard drive for the longest time. My previous laptop didn't have very much hard drive space, or memory, and so I used an external drive to get around that, but my current laptop has a large enough hard disk that I really don't need an external hard drive, so I moved all the files from my external hard drive to the hard drive on my laptop and reformatted my external hard drive. I really didn't have any important information on my external hard drive, just gaming files and stuff. Most of the games that I play are really old. I haven't really bothered to look at anything new.

I wrote an email to my graduate advisor about dropping both of my classes and withdrawing from the MSQF program. There was a social dynamic that I really had trouble navigating, and, just found it an overall difficult environment to get very much of anything done in. I just don't really see any chance of going back there, and even if I did, I'm sure I would have many of the same issues next semester as I did this semester, and so I think it's really best that I just withdraw in this case.

...

I feel kind of lost, and kind of stuck at the same time. I'm getting things together to file for a Driver's License and Vehicle Registration in Nevada, and I really think it's less and less likely that I'll return to Arlington, Texas, and to UTA for the MSQF program. I don't really know where to go from here.

I think that. Well. There is a recession looming on the Horizon. What's going to happen? How is life going to be more or less difficult in the future? How will life be harder? How will life be easier? Things are going to be amazing! Trust me! Things will go well, and things will be amazing for you! Trust that things will be Amazing! and they WILL BE AMAZING! YOU KNOW HOW LIFE CAN BE AMAZING!

Sometimes I look up people from different periods of my life just to see how they are doing these days. 

...

This annotation to "innocuous post 37" is being written on 10/12/2022 04:17 PM

I remember writing this post. For a while after I moved to Texas, I started to pay more attention to the Mega Millions and the Powerball. I think that the main reason for this was that when I was living in Cameron, Missouri, I just didn't come across many advertisements for the lottery, or many billboards advertising the current Mega Millions or the Powerball jackpots. In a big Metro area like Dallas / Fort Worth, it was different, there were Lottery billboards everywhere, and everywhere I went there were people scratching lottery tickets, and, even that short month in January of 2022 when I worked at the gas station, there were tons of people who spent tons of money day after day buying lottery tickets and spending their lottery winnings on even more lottery tickets.

Every now and then I'll take an old post, and reflect on what was happening at that time, and then eventually I'll turn the old post into an "Archived Content" post. I looked at a few, and most of the old posts were about some of my initial thoughts about relocating to Texas. I don't think that I've written very much about my relocation from Texas. Not yet anyway. Lots of things just sort of went down the toilet after the end of February, February being the month that I went on a road trip to Louisiana and really fucked up my car in the process. Work wise, I think I remember quitting my second job at the Gas Station, the manager at the gas station was making the work situation more unpleasant than it needed to be, which made me think that she just really didn't want me working there and was creating a situation that would cause me to quit. Same thing at the Janitorial place that I worked 2 days at late in February.

Sometimes when I start a new position, I'm never sure if I should take things slow and not make any waves or rustle any feathers, or catch any one's attention, or, you know, sometimes I think that if I do take things slow, I'll be perceived as not being really interested in the role, or not being enthusiastic about my role.

I'm starting over again in Nevada. I really don't know what kind of long-term plans I have. I don't really have any long-term plans at this point. My thinking is that, for the next 12 months or so, I'll just reduce my debt and save up money for whatever does happen next. I just can't believe that I let things get out of hand like this. I wonder what I could have done differently. One thing would have been to relocate after the first road trip. The one back in June or July or whatever, but I don't really know, I had too many different things going on. Part of the reason I came back to Texas was to go to college, but that fell apart really quickly. I'm wondering how the fuck that happened, but everything was falling apart there, everything was falling apart for me in Texas, and really, to me, that means get the fuck out of there. I held on after the catastrophes I experienced in February, I did what I could and held on, and even school was an attempt to keep things going for me in Texas, but the school thing fell apart. So really, everything was falling apart for me in Texas. I "ran away" from Texas, but, I gave it a good 8 months and a good 50,000 dollars worth of effort to stay there after things were clearly going to hell in February. Maybe I did "run away" from my problems in Texas, but it probably would have made more sense to "cut my losses" early, and leave Texas, or started making plans to leave Texas, after February.

The only thing that I can think of doing here, while I'm in Las Vegas, is to reduce my debt, and increase my savings for as long as I can, and just have money and credit lined up for whatever happens. Every now and then things just seem to spiral right down the toilet. In San Jose, in Nevada four years ago, in Missouri two years ago, and just recently in Texas. Here we go again.

...

innocuous post # 37

somewhere in the ancient fortress town called
fort worth there is a winning lottery
ticket waiting to be purchased from bald
man number eight fourteen, he's soldering

a medieval random number picker
known as The Dart Board of Elysium 
which went downward through history, sticker
covered and glued with glitter and gypsum

to cover a crack in it's backside, and here
today, upon the bald man's desk, it sits,
waiting to reunite the forest's deer
with the savannah's antelope, which pits.

fuck this. the poem is fucking stupid.
i would much rather go right back to bed.

like where the fuck was I going to go
with that deer and antelope shit? who knows?

I was just thinking like. i have three lines 
left and i don't know where to take this damn
metaphor, dumb ass deer, dumb ass lions
stupid fucking dart board glued with green ham

and orange eggs. fuck. i had tacos once 
more today. glorious and crispy ones.

...

Butter is not the Answer # 19

you're wondering what
that feeling is. it's sweat!
you've been working out
and now you are greasy.
or you've been humping
your lover like the two of
you haven't humped each
other in years. you asked
yourself what that greasy
feeling might be. and
the answer to that question.
is not butter. butter was not.
and is not the answer to your
question.

...

okay. so what i want to know is. how does an emphasis. so. how does the individualized projects / team projects dichotomy reconcile itself with the work from home (WFH) / return to the office (RTO) dichotomy? and. i'm not trying to suggest.

anyway. i think that i've come with a solution to. like. how to respond. to any kind of. anyway. i'm not really going to worry about this for now because. i'm really not in that line of work anyway. and i have no intention of pursuing that line of work.

when i think about this. i just really don't want to suggest anything. i don't want to bring up anything that could. like. challenge the work from home (WFH) movement. i don't really want to say anything that would suggest that i'm anti-work-from-home, or anything. because.

and then, let's suppose hybrid-work environments. how do you hybridize individualized projects and team projects? what is the industry jargon for hybridized individualized collaboration work?

okay. i'll just take a position. if the team is the be all and end all of a project, then (RTO) would be optimal, wouldn't it? because you would have that additional layer of in-person collaboration that you just wouldn't get from tele-conferencing.

okay. so here. i have an idea for the. well. here's the thing. there are arguments for both sides of the return to the office (RTO) / work from home (WFH) argument.

one issue. one idea is that the (WFH) movement is a conspiracy on the part of the collaboration software industrial complex, how do we know this: cui bono! and, you could also say that, anyone who returns to the office (RTO) is, by definition, a team player, even if the person is a total introvert.

honestly, what side am i on? honestly: cui bono! i benefit most from (WFH) because i really don't like traffic. like really. why is there so much traffic. it's a car maker conspiracy! yeah. that's full disclosure.

and. yeah. that was really more thinking than i wanted to do after reading a short tweet and a few supporting tweets. 
...

I have a little over an hour before I should be checking out of this motel, I really don't have any money right now for another day. On the one hand there's this idea that the easiest thing to do would be to head back to Texas, I wouldn't have to go through this whole relocation headache yet again. I dropped all of my classes at UTA, and this is bad, of course, but it might be forgivable. On the other hand, I have a feeling that there's some reason for all of this traveling and shit that I've been doing lately, I really should be leaving Texas, but where the hell do I go? This area is just fine for finding work and setting up my business, and it's a kind of low cost of living area, I think. The issue with staying here is that when I think about relocating, I start thinking that I can really relocate to pretty much anywhere. Or to put it another way, when I think about relocating, I could probably find something that's slightly more ideal than this particular place.

...

So what are my plans now? I wouldn't mind hanging out here in Somerville, but, I eventually have to go back to school. I have to be in a city where I can find work, transfer into a new college, somewhere that's somewhat inexpensive, and that I can set up my business. I'm somewhat skeptical that I'll be able to transfer to a new college, given that I basically didn't accomplish anything during my first semester at UTA. This was a fucking disaster.

I found it hard to get anything done. The reason I wanted to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource for the course was because the Bloomberg Market Concepts Certification course was part of the Student Managed Investment Fund's requirements. I found the Bloomberg Terminal kind of complex to use, at first, but once I got the hang of it, I found it extremely useful.

Most of the analytical crap you would do in Excel, or in some other is stuff you can do in the Bloomberg Terminal by pressing the correct button, or, if you have some other formula or algorithm that you're working with, you can just plug it into the Bloomberg Terminal. There seemed to be this obsession with exporting data from the Bloomberg Terminal to work with it in Excel or some other software program to do some kind of analytical shit, but, it just seemed like an unnecessary extra step.

Anyway, I dropped my classes, and I'll see about getting into a college, or transferring into a college somewhere in Tennessee. It's 3:56 AM and I'm really fucking hungry, luckily for me, nothing is fucking open. I'm thinking that, okay. so. I can't really head back to Texas for whatever various reasons that prevent me from heading back there. I can't go back, and that's that.

I'm trying to think about what the hell went wrong there. Well, I guess I owe a bunch of money and didn't even so much as finish my classes.

...

I don't completely remember what set me off on that First road trip in June, or the one in February, or any of these road trips. Maybe I was thinking about relocating. I don't remember. I think that I'm going to relocate this time, but what the hell am I going to do for work? How the hell do I get set up in a new town? I need to find work, and an apartment. I minute ago I was thinking about heading back to Texas, but I really can't head back to Texas.

I'm thinking.

...

Notes Taken During My First Semester at the University of Texas at Arlington

...

Annotation to Notes from Arlington # 65

This was written during my June Road trip. It's September 25th, 2022, and I'm back in Tennessee. 

...

i stayed in Somerville tn for a night. im in the next town over, and i already feel like just staying here.

...

today is sunday. my thinking is that the roads should be empty, and it would be a good idea to keep driving.

...

i cant really go back to texas anyway. but i dont really know where to go.

...

maybe it was just time to leave texas. i had been there for 2 years. maybe it was just time for me to go. i really don't know what to do about college though.

...

i think that im just going to relocate. 
i'm on the Arkansas side of Memphis. 
i honestly don't know where the hell to go.

Everywhere is a fucking nightmare.
the nightmare never ends.
I really can't go back to Texas.

I have to leave texas. I really do.
I don't really know where to go, though.
this was a fabulous waste of money.

I threw away as much of my stuff as I could.
and threw away additional stuff on my way here.

I'll probably throw away 
additional stuff here 
and there
on my way to where 
ever the hell I end up.

i don't really know where 
the fuck to go at
this point.

I'm facing one frustration after another.

...

I'm really having a hard time getting my business in a more formalized state. I have the various things that I need to do on my calendar, but, sometimes there is no telling if I will get anything done or not, or if I'll get distracted by this or that issue, or, you know, who knows what will happen. I'm still facing a number of different challenges. and stuff. You know, like this and that stuff.

...

Class Notes Starting September 14th, 2022

one thing that I often face that impedes my ability to get anything done is the avalanche of emails that I have to deal with, or that fall into my mail box. I obviously don't read them all, but I usually scan them to see if they contain anything important.

...

Thinking. I'm going to hold off on looking for work right now. or looking for an internship or anything like that.

I really should just be focusing on school right now.

...

Butter is not the Answer # 9

I stayed in Gallup, New Mexico for just one night, I hung out with one of the locals, and I really think that I liked her. I really would have considered staying in Gallup, New Mexico, still. I'm not sure what I would have done for work, or where I would have stayed or, whatever. There was something interesting at the hotel I stayed at. The hotel was actually somewhat fancy, and some of the other hotels in the area, the ones that seemed abandoned, or worn down, or otherwise kind of lousy, were the ones I really wanted to stay at. I wanted to stay at a cheaper motel, or cheaper hotel or something that was cheap, and also looked cheap. The desk agent was actually a person who was telecommuting.

I'm in Gallup, New Mexico. This seems like a tourist destination, but, it also seems like a college town too.

Annotation written on 10/09/2022 @ 05:29 PM

I really thought about staying here. 
or
I really thought about staying in 
Gallup, New Mexico. They have
a University there, and I really
thought about relocating to that
area.

...



I stated in Gallup, New Mexico for just one night, I hung out with one of the locals, and I really think that I liked her. I really would have considered staying in Gallup, New Mexico, still. I'm not sure what I would have done for work, or where I would have stayed or, whatever. There was something interesting at the hotel I stayed at. The hotel was actually somewhat fancy, and some of the other hotels in the area, the ones that seemed abandoned, or worn down, or otherwise kind of lousy, were the ones I really wanted to stay at. I wanted to stay at a cheaper motel, or cheaper hotel or something that was cheap, and also looked cheap. The desk agent was actually a person who was telecommuting.

I'm in Gallup, New Mexico. This seems like a tourist destination, but, it also seems like a college town too.

Annotation written on 10/09/2022 @ 05:29 PM

I really thought about staying here. 
or
I really thought about staying in 
Gallup, New Mexico. They have
a University there, and I really
thought about relocating to that
area.

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 9 

...

what else is on my mind? Just facing quite a few challenges lately. It seems as though everywhere I go, someone or another tries to instigate a reaction. and it isn't always clear to me why.

...

June
July 
and 
August

were kind of a blur

same for the first part of September. I think that I went on four road trips this year. really long fucking road trips.

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 68

I better not buy anything that I don't need. I thought about buying a few wallets online, but I'm going to hold off on that for now.

Annotation to Notes from Arlington, Texas # 68

I really spent way too much money during these last few months. I really need to make my best effort to stay in school, otherwise I'm more or less fucked.

and again.

I really don't know how I'll be able to balance working and going to college at the same time. This might be a pain in the neck, but I also might be able to make this happen. Who knows.

...

1329052986263180533/2719064057174264964

1329052986263180533/2719064057174264964















...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

I really don't want to wear hats anymore. I feel like they give me a headache. One thing I realize from being in Texas for several years now, is that, it's hot, and humid, and it's really easy to get sweaty and smelly.

...

I would like to think up a new series title, but I really can't come up with anything. I really can't think of anything.

...

This is where the orange juice 
sends the lemonade to the martini. 
this is where the mimosa and the 
mojito drink and eat and feel 
the ends of the earth.

...

okay, so here is the issue. currently. i might be able to get some work done, but i'm not entirely sure about that. it's fifty-fifty.

...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

it can be kind of difficult to get anything done around here. a total fucking nightmare. I doubt that any of us can really get anything done.


it's kind of such a nightmare. to get anything done/ it can



\

Placeholder, still h

...

im not an indolent moron, nor am i an insolent ingrate. im tired. thats it. i guess it's a smoking room.

i ended up smoking in the room anyway. dont worry. i didnt have any fucking food. so i ate the nearest thing available. 

anyway. i know it took me a while to return to dallas, but, i figured that time was not of the essence, since compound interest is the most powerful force in the universe.

however. i have to figure something out. i cant find my fucking calculator. i havent upgraded since 1989. i dont even know if i still have that thing. shit.

...

always. if i visit Kentucky. i invariably manage to take the route back to dallas that passes through nashville. or vice versa, like last month.

...

This is the Third Time, September 3rd, 2022

anyway.

kenneth larot yamat is currently subject to a nondisclosure agreement with an undisclosed party.

should any specific remarks be made about his complete inability to perform cunnilingus from monday 7:02 AM to monday 7:77 AM be discussed with anyone other than the appropriate parties invloved, he will be in violation of said non-disclosure agreement, the breach of which will require significant compensation in the form of additional specific performance of additional cunnilingus or additional performance based compensation in the form of substantially more intense cunnilingus for the remainder of the current artistic performance of completely unsatisfactory cunnilingus, requiring an additional cunnilingus session performed with all deliberate haste.

should he smell like anything other than pussy juice upon his return to his current residence, he will be subject to nothing less than multiple additional performances of additional cunnilingus. 

...

some young man made a defamatory remark a while ago. young. but thats the way it goes for kids his age. well. he left. so.

well. any chance he could. you know. he is.

...

i dont know whats up. but. i think someone out there is accomplishment blocking me. i tried to head back to texas so that i could attend class in person, however, as soon as i left indiana, there was a fucking monsoon, or fucking invasion from outer space consisting primarily of rain drops, which kept falling on my head. so i put on my hat.

i dont feel like drowning to death. right now. i asked the sheriff for directions, he said theres a hotel in the big city. i got there. and there was no hotel. i guess i should have asked the deputy, but either he didnt have a deputy, or the deputy was in invisible mode. so.

...

When I think about. I don't know what to say.

this is the third road trip in 3 months. i'm tired. and. im just so irritable.

i want to be nice, but, sometimes i end up in places i dont really want to be.

i really don't want to withdraw from school. i think that the discipline i'm pursuing is an important one.

i just don't know why i face the challenges that i face.

but this third road trip. really. even though it has been a nightmare, i don't think that the outcome will be as terrible as.

i just don't know what to say.

i really want to finish the program. im heading all the way back to texas. again.

...

Butter is not the Answer # 11

It feels strange being back in Las Vegas, passing by the city skyline it just seems small in comparison to the DFW area. I really only saw the Dallas skyline a hand full of times, a few times when I moved to Dallas in 2020, and then, usually each time I left the area on a road trip. I feel funny. This feels really weird. Being back here. It feels different, it feels really different this time. Being here.

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 11 

...

based on your
performance
i have no choice
but to tell you
that you're
a total loser

...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.

...

think about 
what you did 
you total jerk!

...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...



...



Back Home, September 9th, 2022

Back Home, September 9th, 2022

i dont know what happened the other day. but i seemed to have irritated the bartender at this pizza place i went to. i really didn't understand what happened.

she seemed upset about something. she said that she wanted me to leave. so i paid and left.

a guy chased after me, and said: "No one here thinks that's funny."

and i still have no idea what i did, or what offense i committed.

i remember, i asked where the basil was, and a woman behind me said:

"the toppings are placed underneath the cheese here."

and i responded: "you're right about that, i've eaten here before."

and then i just sort of went at it with my pizza,

and then the bartender became upset.

my nails were dirty, really dirty, and i was eating two slices of pizza at a time. like a pig.

and maybe that was the thing, she was irritated that i was eating like a pig.

but.

i think that i was eating with a fork and knife first, and then
i started eating with my hands.

maybe i should just change my major or something.

i really fucking wanted to go to school, but, i don't really know what the hell to do.

...




...



...

Notes, Thoughts, and Reflections While Using the Bloomberg Terminal 





...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...

Links, Bookmarks, and Favorites Dump Section

https://www.worldtimebuddy.com/

https://www.irs.gov/credits-deductions/individuals/education-credits-questions-and-answers

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polyethylene

https://sciencing.com/difference-between-polyethylene-pvc-8531363.html

https://www.professionalplastics.com/professionalplastics/content/downloads/BallisticRatings.pdf

...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...

It didn't turn out the way I hoped it would. Things in Texas didn't turn out the way I hoped that they would, and I really don't know how everything went wrong all at once and I wasn't really prepared for all of that. I really wasn't.

...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.

...

I could put something here like the notes that I took, some of which were total non-sense.

...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...

Class Notes Starting September 14th, 2022

one thing that I often face that impedes my ability to get anything done is the avalanche of emails that I have to deal with, or that fall into my mail box. I obviously don't read them all, but I usually scan them to see if they contain anything important.

...

Thinking. I'm going to hold off on looking for work right now. or looking for an internship or anything like that.

I really should just be focusing on school right now.


...

what else is on my mind? Just facing quite a few challenges lately. It seems as though everywhere I go, someone or another tries to instigate a reaction. and it isn't always clear to me why.

...

June
July 
and 
August

were kind of a blur

same for the first part of September. I think that I went on four road trips this year. really long fucking road trips.



...

















...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

I really don't want to wear hats anymore. I feel like they give me a headache. One thing I realize from being in Texas for several years now, is that, it's hot, and humid, and it's really easy to get sweaty and smelly.

...

I would like to think up a new series title, but I really can't come up with anything. I really can't think of anything.

...

This is where the orange juice 
sends the lemonade to the martini. 
this is where the mimosa and the 
mojito drink and eat and feel 
the ends of the earth.

...

okay, so here is the issue. currently. i might be able to get some work done, but i'm not entirely sure about that. it's fifty-fifty.

...

Note: This is kind of a running page of notes.

...

it can be kind of difficult to get anything done around here. a total fucking nightmare. I doubt that any of us can really get anything done.


it's kind of such a nightmare. to get anything done/ it can



\

Placeholder, still h

...

im not an indolent moron, nor am i an insolent ingrate. im tired. thats it. i guess it's a smoking room.

i ended up smoking in the room anyway. dont worry. i didnt have any fucking food. so i ate the nearest thing available. 

anyway. i know it took me a while to return to dallas, but, i figured that time was not of the essence, since compound interest is the most powerful force in the universe.

however. i have to figure something out. i cant find my fucking calculator. i havent upgraded since 1989. i dont even know if i still have that thing. shit.

...

always. if i visit Kentucky. i invariably manage to take the route back to dallas that passes through nashville. or vice versa, like last month.

...

This is the Third Time, September 3rd, 2022

anyway.

kenneth larot yamat is currently subject to a nondisclosure agreement with an undisclosed party.

should any specific remarks be made about his complete inability to perform cunnilingus from monday 7:02 AM to monday 7:77 AM be discussed with anyone other than the appropriate parties invloved, he will be in violation of said non-disclosure agreement, the breach of which will require significant compensation in the form of additional specific performance of additional cunnilingus or additional performance based compensation in the form of substantially more intense cunnilingus for the remainder of the current artistic performance of completely unsatisfactory cunnilingus, requiring an additional cunnilingus session performed with all deliberate haste.

should he smell like anything other than pussy juice upon his return to his current residence, he will be subject to nothing less than multiple additional performances of additional cunnilingus. 

...

some young man made a defamatory remark a while ago. young. but thats the way it goes for kids his age. well. he left. so.

well. any chance he could. you know. he is.

...

i dont know whats up. but. i think someone out there is accomplishment blocking me. i tried to head back to texas so that i could attend class in person, however, as soon as i left indiana, there was a fucking monsoon, or fucking invasion from outer space consisting primarily of rain drops, which kept falling on my head. so i put on my hat.

i dont feel like drowning to death. right now. i asked the sheriff for directions, he said theres a hotel in the big city. i got there. and there was no hotel. i guess i should have asked the deputy, but either he didnt have a deputy, or the deputy was in invisible mode. so.

...

When I think about. I don't know what to say.

this is the third road trip in 3 months. i'm tired. and. im just so irritable.

i want to be nice, but, sometimes i end up in places i dont really want to be.

i really don't want to withdraw from school. i think that the discipline i'm pursuing is an important one.

i just don't know why i face the challenges that i face.

but this third road trip. really. even though it has been a nightmare, i don't think that the outcome will be as terrible as.

i just don't know what to say.

i really want to finish the program. im heading all the way back to texas. again.







...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022



...



















...

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

...



















...

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.


...





...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...





...
...

The sector analysis paper is due before the Bloomberg Certification is due, so, I guess I'll get started on that first.
...


...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.




...


I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?


...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so


never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at


11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.


there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...



...



Back Home, September 9th, 2022

Back Home, September 9th, 2022

i dont know what happened the other day. but i seemed to have irritated the bartender at this pizza place i went to. i really didn't understand what happened.

she seemed upset about something. she said that she wanted me to leave. so i paid and left.

a guy chased after me, and said: "No one here thinks that's funny."

and i still have no idea what i did, or what offense i committed.

i remember, i asked where the basil was, and a woman behind me said:

"the toppings are placed underneath the cheese here."

and i responded: "you're right about that, i've eaten here before."

and then i just sort of went at it with my pizza,

and then the bartender became upset.

my nails were dirty, really dirty, and i was eating two slices of pizza at a time. like a pig.

and maybe that was the thing, she was irritated that i was eating like a pig.

but.

i think that i was eating with a fork and knife first, and then
i started eating with my hands.

maybe i should just change my major or something.

i really fucking wanted to go to school, but, i don't really know what the hell to do.

...




...



...

Notes, Thoughts, and Reflections While Using the Bloomberg Terminal 





...

so. i dont know. i was planning on just continuing to work on the project, but, i might just withdraw from the class entirely, and re-enroll next semester.

i realize that im not really the type of person who can work with just anyone.

so i really have to think about how to approach things until the end of the semester.

i have to think about why it wasn't a good match, but, she was working, and going to school at the same time.

and. i really don't know what to say about that. technically im working right and going to school too.

i dont have an employer. because im self employed and in the publishing business.

you know what. i never incorporated chestnut and hazel, or even got as far as registering an it as a company.

id register it as a partnership, you know, as the most logical next baby-step, but i feel that listing 

kenneth larot yamat, 

and 

kenneth larot yamat, the one and only

as partners 

would be perceived as facetious.

and i havent officially registered trademarks for chestnut and hazel, chestnut & hazel, or chestnut + hazel.

maybe this is a sign that i should go ahead and do that.

...

Okay, i figured something out.

the .prn file isn't for a pocket calculator, although it can be used in one,

it's for SAS, or the statistical analysis system.

...

this is really funny. i was trying to figure out what a .prn file is, and it's used for pocket calculator spreadsheets. 

here is the thing.

okay.

i had a ti-89 titanium

so i never bothered to learn ms excel, or, well. i guess i mean, i didn't really.

i mean in terms of years ago, when, i was in class and we had something or other to do in ms excel, i would just follow along using my ti-89 spreadsheet, rather than following along in ms excel.

but the .prn file that i was trying to open earlier was probably from a spreadsheet that was exported from someone's pocket calculator, and then uploaded to where i can download it.


...







 
...

 





...










...

today is tuesday. what did i get done today?

so. i think i figured something out to the internship / work search issue.

i'm going to use the bloomberg terminal.

anyway.

that's exactly what i tried to do this morning. 

i figured that. since today is tuesday. i can work on something other than coursework.

so i worked on the work search.

i didn't know where to start,
but

only in the sense that i didn't know
where
i wanted to start.

so i just started exploring the tabs.

anyway. a lot of the companies that i'm interested in don't really have any openings. many don't even have a career page.

so.

i just mailed out a bunch of hand written letters.

the first company I called up. i mentioned that they were listed on the campus job board, but when i went to their website, they didn't even have a career page.

the person who answered the phone mentioned that they didn't have any openings, and they rarely have open positions.

so i figured i'd mail them a letter, saying that i'm interested in working for their company one day.

...

what's on my mind right now? Tuesday. tomorrow is tuesday.

...

it was kind of tedious, but I did it. i really have to figure out how to put this into words. but I went ticker by ticker. i mean. it didn't take a hell of a lot of time, but it really was tedious. really tedious.

...

There was one silly issue that I had because, I don't know what this would be refered to in the spreadsheet application that I typically use, but:

It's Called Freeze Panes / Freeze Rows.

Silly.

...

So here is one thing. I need to use two sources, I need to use Bloomberg for the Expected Returns, and I need to use State Street for the weights within the index.

see screenshot below.

I'm trying to highlight how I'm using the information from both sources, Bloomberg and State Street.

...





...

Below is a screenshot of the "custom" tab for the watchlist analytics function, and I'm wanting to put in a formula, but I don't know how to format formulas for the Bloomberg Terminal.

the issue is i want to be able to do Excel Stuff without opening Excel.

...











...

okay. so there are more screenshots here than i can really discuss.

i'm looking at the watchlist analytics for S5INDU and S5MATR in the Bloomberg terminal.

There is one thing that I'm interested in. and it's the tap at the far right that says "Custom"

I tried working with it, but, I haven't come up with anything.
...

 






...


i think that i figured something out.

...

















...


S5INDU is the ticker of the industrials index - XLI is the ETF that tracks the materials index
S5MATR is the ticker of the materials index - XLB is the ETF that tracks the materials index


...

so what was it?

it was odd. 

the sectors i intended on focusing on was materials.

how it works in this class is that industrials and materials are grouped together for the purposes of group assignments.

i remember when sectors were being assigned, the person who is my current group partner called out industrials, and i called out materials.

so i was under the impression that my group partner would want to work the industrials sector.

but when we spoke today, my group partner mentioned wanting to focus on materials.

but when we had minor group work together, my group partner went into the industrial set first, and then the materials set next.

this isn't a problem. really. but, i just don't know. if this is going to continue to oscillate back and forth or what.

what i'm thinking is. it really might not matter, the reason being that even though i might like materials, if.

well

it just shouldn't matter if i look at industrials or materials.

...

so what happened the other night? well, i was at the library later, I think about 45 minutes after midnight, I wanted to get a bunch of stuff done, but, I was tired, and there seem to be as many distractions during the night as there are during the day.

anyway. I want to continue working on my paper.

so in the example student paper, correlations are drawn between the index performance of the financials index, as well as the performance of the real estate index.

what what should I look at in my case?

what I'm thinking about is looking at the various correlations between the materials sector and various commodities.

so in the screenshot below i'm looking at the historical beta for the materials index and the

i think this is brent crude?

let me look.

okay, so it's WTI crude, but what does that mean?

...

















...

now what the hell was i thinking about? I think that i'm somewhat tired, and i'll come back to this later. it's just usually so crowded around here that I really can't get anything done, and I think that it's more or less the same issue.

...

well, i think that i've found something that I can amuse myself with whenever i think that i'm becoming distracted.

...

but it's basically this. I have an idea, and it is an amazing idea, and I think that most people will be impressed by it, if it can be executed in a way that people find interesting, and I think that most people will find it interesting because even when I just think about it, I'm intersted in it myself, and you think that most people will be interested in it, but, they probably won't be interested in it because it is such a trivial thing to pursue.

here is what I think about most things.

...

I can't figure out what the hell I was working on earlier, but I have found something that I'm interested in. I really have, and I think that I want to explore more of what I'm doing with this. and this should be the most amazing thing that will ever happen to the universe, and people all around the universe will be amazed with what I'm about to produce, and I will be quoted the universe over, by other sentient life forms, and even non-living forms of sentience, 

inanimate entities, and consciousnesses from the void will come.

...

well. i'm going to start here:

I'm going to look at the components in the materials sector of the  S&P 1500 index.

...

Well. truth is. I'm not sure where I was going to go with bond yields for the materials sector, I think what I wanted to do was to check into.

I guess somehow figure how sensitive the materials sector is to interest rates. I could probably use the other chart to figure out a correlation between the two.

like um. ten year treasuries and xlb.

but i'm sure that. um. 

i really want something more accurate.

I want to figure out what each company is actually paying in terms of interest coupon payments and how this interacts.

but i'm going to forget about this for now and look at something else. but what was it though? for whatever reason I can't recall what the hell I was thinking about.

...

I wanted to look at something, but I'm not sure where I'm going with this. What I think I was trying to look up, was.

I wanted to search. something like bonds. or. i wanted to see how the bond yields compare for companies listed in the materials sector, and compare these to dividend yields for the same companies, but here is the thing.

I'm not sure if this would really mean anything. I'm 

I guess. I'm currently under the assumption. that the bond yields should be comparable to the dividend yields, but I'm not sure why I'm assuming this. I guess, I'm not sure what makes me think that the bond yields should be comparable, so I'm not sure why I would want to figure out if the information in the Bloomberg terminal would either confirm my assumption or suspicion or hypothesis or what.

there are other things that I kind of want to look into here as well.

...

anyway. I think that this is as much note taking as I'm going to do for the day, and then I'm going to head home.

...

So I think this is the 5 year Volatility and Risk analysis, and the citation for this screenshot should be styled as:

S5MATR Index Historical Beta 5 YR, via Bloomberg LP, Accessed August 28, 2022

Notes:

Historical Beta

and 

Regression Analysis

are the same thing.

I think, unless I'm missing something.

What I mean is, it seems that when a person is trying to determine the historical beta of an index, or some other security against a benchmark

it's the same thing as performing a regression analysis of an index or some other security against a benchmark,

and it's possible that I already learned this at some point in the past

or maybe someone already told me this before, or maybe I came across this somewhere or another.

anyway.

the reason I'm fussing over this mentally is that the other day I said something like:



"So I would basically pay twice as much for the full set, right?"

and then the guy said

"No, you would just pay double for all four over the quoted price of just two."

and this is always annoying because, it's possible that two people are saying the same thing using different words, but there is always one person in any conversation who really doesn't understand that the same thing can be said in multiple ways. 


...

Butter is not the Answer # 10

https://www.blogger.com/u/1/blog/post/edit/1329052986263180533/1399004052754844542

When I think about it, I wonder what it would have been like to stay in Gallup, New Mexico, if I would have started a life out there. It wouldn't have been clear to me what I would have done for work, or if there really was any work out there for me to do. I'm still so unsure about this whole thing about being back in Nevada.

66 miles outside of Las Vegas. I'm at a gas station just unwinding for a little bit.

Hum... back in Arizona I stopped at a Napa Auto Parts store and changed my wiper blades.

I'm about 160 miles outside of Las Vegas. I emailed my graduate advisor about my situation, and about the need to potentially withdraw from the MSQF program.

After staying the night in Roswell, NM I kept driving until I passed through Gallup, NM, where I stayed the night.

...

I'm about 160 miles outside of Las Vegas. I emailed my graduate advisor about my situation, and about the need to potentially withdraw from the MSQF program.

...

After staying the night in Roswell, NM I kept driving until I passed through Gallup, NM, where I stayed the night.

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 10 

...















...

I figured out how to put all four of the things I'm looking at into a single chart, the only thing is, is that it isn't very interesting to look at.

SPX Index Comparative Returns, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP Accessed August 28, 2022 

so the part of the assignment that I'm trying to work on has me look at: 

Price Performance, Total Return Analysis, Volatility and Risk Analysis, and Those are for YTD and 3YR Periods

and Positive Alpha over a 5 year period.
...

















...

The next thing that I want to do is look at the ETFs for the S&P 500 Materials index vs the ETF for the S&P 500 index

The Citations should look like:

XLB US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPY US Equity Total Return Analysis, 3 Year, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

So what I'm I supposed to look at next? 

Okay, so I need to compare the Total Return for S&P 500 Materials Index against the S&P 500 Index.

the issue here is that I need to put the total return for both indices into a single graph, and not have 2 separate graphs, but I forgot how to do that.

anyway, as far as citation styling goes, I think that I would style the first as:

S5MATR Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

the second would appear as:

SPX Index Total Return Analysis, August 26, 2019 - August 26, 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28, 2022

So what I need to figure out next is: 

How do I put this screen shot into the appropriate citation format? I'm thinking it should be: 

SPTRSC15 Index Members, August 28th 2022, via Bloomberg LP, accessed August 28th 2022

with an in-text appearance of: 

(Bloomberg, 2022)

here are a few things that I want to do with the paper.

one is that I want to use the Bloomberg Terminal as the primary resource, and if possible, the only resource,

and

I want to keep whatever graphics and images and charts that I use in the paper and class presentation to be screenshots and screen captures from the Bloomberg Terminal,

the other thing that I want to mention is that when i'm searching the materials sector, I'm alternating the columns between the GICS and BICS classification systems.

...

It really annoys me when the weather is hot and windy, because I want to keep the window open when it's hot, but the shades won't stop moving when it's windy and the window is open. I'm thinking about Sunday, and what to do on Sunday. I didn't apply for any internships or positions since I last wrote about wanting to find one. There's this endless competition between my desire to work on things of personal interest and things of professional interest, and educational pursuits are kind of a combination of both, or maybe educational pursuits are at the intersection of personal interests and professional interests. 

...

One thing about putting notes on my blog from sources around the internet is that I think it might make more sense to take screenshots of what I find, rather than copying and pasting the material because I file copyrights on the text from my blog, and I obviously can't file a copyright claim for text that I didn't write myself, so to prevent me from accidentally filing a copyright claim on someone else's content, I'll just make a reference to other people's content using screenshots, rather than copying and pasting the text.

There is also this other issue with inserting images into my blog. The issue involves where the lines break, and I guess I just figured out what happens. so I guess I answered the question to the issue that I was having. so there.

...

The sector analysis paper is due before 
the Bloomberg Certification is due, 
so, I guess I'll get started on that first.

...

 i went out to eat. i was on campus for
several hours doing course work. what else?
I think that I'm going to work on something.


when I got home after going out to eat. and
spending time on campus. and then going
out to eat again, i um. had trouble turning
on my laptop and i was really frustrated
about it. but i eventually got it turned out.

...

I'm tired. and hungry.
it's 330 am.
what could i eat?

...

I submitted a copyright claim for the previous post
and I'm thinking that for this post I'll just make it
one big
well
what i'm thinking is that i'll take a different
approach to how i format this post and
i think that i'm going to skip out on creating


lines between newer content and older content
and i'm not sure how this will look or how it will
appear. but i guess i'll see.


nah. you know what. now that i think about it. i do
have to create marks that separate one train of
thought from another train of thought and kind
of demarcate where one train of though begins
and where one ends. so

never mind.
well. i kind of want to head back to campus to
get some work done at the library. i think that today
i spent about 3 hours in the lab. i went to lunch at

11 AM, arrived at campus around 1 PM and left
at around 4 PM. or a little after.

there is an event at the stadium and it's packed and loud
and noisy and i think that i'll wait it out for now. i did
get an email from the student newspaper, and it had
an article or an advertisement of an information
section about student housing options that are on
campus, and i think that i'll explore those at some
point.

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 67

I should. well.

Annotation to Notes from Arlington, Texas # 67

I don't remember what I was going through when I wrote this particular note. Maybe I was in a state of confusion or something. or Maybe I was thinking about something else. I don't really know.

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 66

That was a nightmare. I went on this strange road-trip, crossing nearly a jillion states, I ended up in the psychiatric hospital on a court ordered mental health hold. Something similar to a 51-50 in California. and now I'm back home.

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 66

What is the deal right now. This is an annotation to Notes from Arlington, Texas # 66. I'm thinking. This was a note from a while ago. I think this was after the June Road Trip. These road trips were interesting. A nightmare, but interesting as well.

September 20th, 2022

51.00 + 65.00

"The brunette bartender at the Restaurant on Collins Boulevard"


her name is katie, and i distinctly remember her having 

blonde hair the last time i came here

this time she berates me for my behavior the last time

i came here, so are 

you going to sit at a booth the next time

you get irritated, 

or are you going to stay where you are?

i tell her i'll stay where I am,

still minutes later. no food. i'm really hungry.

starving. even

she has knockers and she's on collins

i order a bicardi

katie berates me for not having


for having taken a seat elsewhere the last time I was here

i order a tray of 6 naked wings,

but when they arrive they are drenched in
a sweet red sauce?
what is this?

what could this be?
it's sauce!

attitude.
she has an attitude.

it's not that i'm lacking in gratitude.
i'm hungry.

unlike the last time i was here I ate more than
enough.

and you still haven't visted the location in Dallas

the location in dallas is where the largest location is
really. you won't believe how amazing it is.
the largest in the united states, maybe even the world!

...

Notes from Arlington, Texas # 65

06/15/2022 08:32 PM

...

I'm in fucking Nashville.

* * *

it's a constant recalibration of what i need to do. filing for unemployment is a total waste of time. filing an unemployment insurance claim is a total waste of time. my claim never gets approved. nightmare. so what the hell do i do?

* * *

There is an issue of. i need to have enough student loan money to cover living expenses. i really don't want to resort to taking out private fucking student loans.

* * *

this is a nightmare. i think that i'll either. i think that i'll file the unemployment claim. and the disability claim.

i'm looking at my electricity bill. 55 fucking kilowatt hours! 10 dollars and 55 fucking cents. i'm home all the time now. so. i just have to figure out what the hell to do over the next few. hell. there really is no telling how long this is going to take. to find work.

if i do have to relocate. yeah. i don't really know.

* * *

i don't know if i should file an additional unemployment claim or what.

* * *

large butts. are part of the large butt industrial complex. small butts. are part of the small butt industrial complex. there are different industries. and there are different industrial complexes. that's just more or less the way that it is. that is more or less the way that it goes. there is something that i was thinking about.

* * *

sometimes designs put us at odds with one another. sometimes designs intentionally put us at odds with one another. i get that quiet spaces are needed. i remember. i found it difficult to accept a work from home position. because. me neighborhood was just too noisy at the time. it was hard to accept calls. it was hard to concentrate on work. it was hard to focus. sometimes it can be hard to focus. sometimes it can be hard to get things done when it's noisy. does it really enhance your concentration. well. who know. i do. i really do need to make a living. and. right now. i just don't think that i can do that. 

i think. it's a conspiracy on the part of the sell things industrial complex. i think that it's part of the industrial goods industrial complex. you have a problem. and we have the solution. i do not want all old things. i want all new things. i don't want a single new thing. i want all old things. i do not want anything other than high prices antiques that are sold by the most respectable antique dealers. and that's the only thing that i want. antiques. antiques. respectable. respectable. 

i remember. there were a few times when i worked in an office setting. and. it was noisy. and. in those cases. i was the noisy one.

* * *

i'm trying to compile my posts for Letters from Sanford Street. and this is the kind of thing that will take some time. what else was i trying to do? well. there was something that i needed to work on, but for some reason. it seems to have slipped my mind. i don't know how to deal with this kind of thing. it's possible that. he might just be trying to get an interview done or something. i have no idea. but he just left. and now this is easier.

i get. i understand that we don't always have our own private work spaces. we don't all have our own offices. and. these quite spaces are really needed. i get that.

part of the reason that i do conduct business. i do work from home when as far as work pertains to Chestnut + Hazel. is because i really don't have money for an office. not right now. any maybe the work from home thing does come with opportunities that can change things.

i think about the people who started businesses in their dorm room. or people who started businesses in their garage.

* * *

it doesn't take long for quiet spaces to become loud spaces. quiet spaces. everyone needs them. i think this guy is from the walking advertisement industrial complex.

* * *

i have to look for something. i have to look for a position. not because i need the money, but because it's relevant to what i want to accomplish. but the only think i really want to accomplish is to have more money.

* * *

i liquidated nearly everything in my robinhood account. i don't think that i would have ever done that. really. i thought that i would just be able to hold down a job. but i actually can't. i can't hold down a job. everyone picks on me. and this is true no matter where i work.

i have to think about what my next moves are. because this is a nightmare. i don't know if i'll be able to find work. or what. or what kind of work or employment i should be looking for.

* * *

alright. well I guess that's over. what a total nightmare. but right now. i really don't know what to do for work.

* * *

it wasn't too far back that i really felt that things were getting better. but they continue to be a disaster. what the hell do i need to do.

* * *

These last few days have been extremely challenging for me. Everything feels like a kind of sensation overload, and I have to look for work, again.

* * *


Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
9m
make a reference to the original. make an attribution. and make a contribution by making a slight change.

think about the original sin of mankind. make a slight change. then make a contribution of your own. you'll have fun. but this assertion is not guaranteed.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
12m
have you ever tasted how so many things taste similar to one another. this one iPhone had a very similar taste to this generic smart phone i was licking earlier. can you taste the difference? i couldn't! i'm embarrassed and i feel like i have no taste.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
14m
maybe we can collect all of the artifacts that the people all over the universe are collecting. if others collect them. then we too should collect them. in many ways. this is a good thing. in other ways. it's something other than a good thing.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
15m
there is an ongoing twitter conflict between the freudians and the hubbardians. this sort of thing will never end. is it all in your mind. or is it all in your head. this debate will never end.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
16m
orange juice is made from squeezed oranges. lemonade is made from squeeze lemons.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
there really is no such thing as a free lunch. but these tweet is free. 

eat my tweet.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
i met a man from an antique land who said. that upon his ball sack. these cock rings appear.

i told him it's wrong to use a cock ring for his ball sack. it's better to use a ball ring.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
what color are your balls. well. you wouldn't know unless you opened your scrotum and checked.

and don't think you can trick me by painting your balls. or dying them red. neptune is an even bluer big ball with a ball ring.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
sputnik was the first man made ball of steel to circle an even greener. and even bluer ball. the earth is a big blue ball.

think of the white ball. and think of the red ball. tonight. we dine at the pub. tonight we play pool.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
balls. inside of an even bigger. translucent ball. and your balls are numbered. 

because we're playing bingo. what did you think we were doing.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
balls. inside of a netted sack.

i think. therefore. that these are onions.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
and on that pedestal. massive stone balls appear.

and on those pedestals. these massive stone balls appear.

do they have names. I don't think they do.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
i think. i dont really know. spam. maybe. ham. maybe. green apples and spam. what do you think.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
large balls. stone balls. concrete spheres mounted on cubes outside of city hall.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
everything is a headache. and everything else is a nightmare.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
but everything is kind of uncertain. onions and maybe some kind of sauce.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
pencils and pens and notebooks. a laptop a tablet. maybe a new phone.

#o2o1o4o4o6o9
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
13h
pencils and pens and notebooks. a laptop a tablet. maybe a new phone.

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
... well. i guess she's off the market now. and i guess its no skin off my cock.

#megamatzoballs
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
... she said something about the beach and a fish net g string and a large otter. and sand. it gets everywhere. even a woman's crotch. and even a one as unbelievably tight as it gets.

#megamatzoballs
Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
·
Jun 14
well. um. if you want to know the truth. im actually part of the team investigating you know who. and. it. um. it honestly felt like she had sand in her crotch. fine grain sand. gently abrasive. good. but still. she had a sand crotch.

#megamatzoballs

Annotation to Notes from Arlington # 65

This was written during my June Road trip

Postcards from Tennessee # 1 

...

Photo Dump

...

Butter is not the Answer # 19

...

 # 19

...

Butter is not the Answer # 18

I bought a carton of egg nog and drank it all. I'm kind of just hanging out in my car and I'm probably going to go back in and get something else. There's nothing to do at home, but I'm not bored to the point that I really want to go prowl the streets. I think that I've taken care of most of the stuff, the preliminary stuff related to relocating, I have to change my addresses in my accounts first, then once I have statements, then I can go to the Nevada DMV to request a Nevada Driver's License, and then I can request Nevada Vehicle Registration.

When I think about it, I wonder what it would have been like to stay in Gallup, New Mexico, if I would have started a life out there. It wouldn't have been clear to me what I would have done for work, or if there really was any work out there for me to do. I'm still so unsure about this whole thing about being back in Nevada.

...

I ended up buying a new nail clipper when I went to the grocery store. There was one thing that was interesting when I went to the grocery store: there were large sections of the store that had locked cabinets. Even though the neighborhood I lived in when I was living in Arlington, TX was a neighborhood that I would think of as being, like a destitute neighborhood, I just didn't see as many things locked up in cabinets.

I changed the title series from "Postcards from Tennessee" to "Butter is not the Answer" and even though the title doesn't really follow conventional capitalization rules, I really don't want to capitalize "is not" and so I won't be capitalizing those words. There also might be an issue with this title change as well, but I'll worry about that later.

I updated my address on most things that I use regularly, but what else do I need to update my address on? I think that I've done it on most things. I returned my apartment key to the land lady. I closed my utilities contract with the energy provider. I mailed my mailbox key back to the Post Office.

...

Places that I think about. I might not see them again, but places that I've been to, that I might not see again, that I think about. Gallup, New Mexico, Somerville, Tennessee, and La Vergne, Tennessee.

...

Butter is not the Answer # 18

These things have not been here 
the whole time, and they have 
not been the best of the best, and 
they have not been the sticks of the butter.

She asked me to send a photograph
of me, stroking a stick of butter, and
I had to tell the girl that it wasn't
really what she was after, and she
really did not want me to send her
a photograph
of me stroking a stick of butter.

What she really wanted was a video
of me making a duck bill with my hand
and sticking my duck bill hand into
a bowl of butter, sticks of butter
are not the answer!

...

808 E Sanford ST
APT 232
Arlington, TX 76011

...

906 N Chestnut St
Cameron, MO 64429

...

"Butter is not the Answer # 18" by Chestnut + Hazel

...


You

...


These things have not been apparent, they have been obvious.

...

📮5892 Losee RD STE 132 PMB 176, North Las Vegas, NV 89081-6200 📧info@chestnutandhazel.com ‎‎☎+1-816-724-5293

...

Butter is not the Answer # 17

Yeah, I really don't know what to do. I don't have any specific plans for the future, and maybe I should just leave it that way. Maybe I should just go with the flow until something comes up, or an opportunity comes up. 

These are basically the things I need in Life to Eat the
butter, but I already established that Butter is not the answer, and
yet you did not listen to me.

Stay where the people are rather than
going to that place where the invisible
people are. That's where the nest is and
where the birds go.

...

Yeah, I really don't know what to do. I don't have any specific plans for the future, and maybe I should just leave it that way. Maybe I should just go with the flow until something comes up, or an opportunity comes up.

...

Annotations to the Post "T innocuous post 24" written on 10/13/2022, original post was written in August of 2020.

In this post I mention that I may have seen someone famous, but I have no idea who it was. I think that I saw the lead singer to one of the alternative bands that I used to listen to as a kid, and honestly, that I still listened to as I got older.

...

T innocuous post 24

...

T innocuous post 24


I could have sworn that i just saw. Someone famous. But maybe it was just. someone normal. 

...

Well, I guess I can think of today as the date that I've moved to Las Vegas. Today is October 8th, 2022

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 17 & Butter is not the Answer # 17

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 17 & 

...

britney lights is a search term that came up in the search terms leading to this blog section. I don't even know what the hell britney lights has to do with my blog. I looked up. I did a web search of what britney lights is, and it refers to a hard core porn actress who I've never done a movie with. EVER.

...

https://www.imdb.com/name/nm9675348/?nmdp=1&

https://www.bing.com/ck/a?!&&p=7539dd3d492a5facJmltdHM9MTY2NTYxOTIwMCZpZ3VpZD0zMDczZWZhYS0zM2Q5LTZkM2MtMDgzZS1mZTUyMzJhYzZjY2EmaW5zaWQ9NTI0MQ&ptn=3&hsh=3&fclid=3073efaa-33d9-6d3c-083e-fe5232ac6cca&psq=britney+lights+chestnut+and+hazel&u=a1aHR0cDovL3d3dy5jaGVzdG51dGFuZGhhemVsLmNvbS8yMDE5Lw&ntb=1

https://www.blogger.com/britney%20lights

https://www.bing.com/search?q=britney+lights+chestnut+and+hazel&qs=n&Search+%7b0%7d+for+%7b1%7d%2cSearch+work+for+%7b0%7d%2c%25eManage+Your+Search+History%25E&sp=-1&pq=britney+lights+chestnut+and+hazel&sc=10-33&sk=&cvid=43225E3887484E9D8CC233976B037014&ghsh=0&ghacc=0&ghpl=&first=5&FORM=PORE

...

Butter is not the Answer

I think that I'm going to change the name of this post from "Butter is not the Answer" to. well. I have no idea.

...

Notes on Life after Arlington

...

Poem

Butter is not the Answer # 17

These are basically the things I need in Life to Eat the
butter, but I already established that Butter is not the answer, and
yet you did not listen to me.

...

https://capitalizemytitle.com/style/Chicago/

...

https://www.bing.com/search?q=Notes%20on%20Life%20After%20Arlington%20site:capitalizemytitle.com&FORM=QBDCRD

...

📮 5892 Losee Road Suite # 132 Private Mail Box # 176, North Las Vegas, Nevada 89081-6200 
📧 info@chestnutandhazel.com ‎‎‎‎‎☎ +1-816-724-5293

...

📮5892 Losee RD STE 132 PMB 176, North Las Vegas, NV 89081-6200 📧info@chestnutandhazel.com ‎‎☎+1-816-724-5293

... 

 Butter is not the Answer # 16 .... The price of gasoline is ridiculously high in Las Vegas. I read that OPEC+ is cutting production in order to increase oil prices, and I'm sure that there are other variables as well. The gasoline prices that I encountered during my road trips was closer to 3.50 per gallon, and this was throughout the mid-west. It's just really high in Las Vegas. I was looking for my nail clipper earlier, but I couldn't find it. I checked all my luggage and my car, and I must have lost it or left it somewhere. I need to keep my nails short. it's difficult to use my phone with long nails. I have a bunch of stuff that I have to get rid of. For one reason or another I developed a habit of buying hammers or different designs and styles. I won't use most of these ever. I have no use for these. Stay where the people are rather than going to that place where the invisible people are. That's where the nest is and where the birds go. ... Postcards from Tennessee # 16 ... I have this issue where, I still come across the: ilovekristin@chestnutandhazel.com email, even in places where I really don't think I set it up. It happened just a few minutes ago. I've been using info@chestnutandhazel.com most of the time when setting up new accounts that require an email. ... https://dmv.nv.gov/newresident.htm

...

Butter is not the Answer # 16

...

The price of gasoline is ridiculously high in Las Vegas. I read that OPEC+ is cutting production in order to increase oil prices, and I'm sure that there are other variables as well. The gasoline prices that I encountered during my road trips was closer to 3.50 per gallon, and this was throughout the mid-west. It's just really high in Las Vegas.

I was looking for my nail clipper earlier, but I couldn't find it. I checked all my luggage and my car, and I must have lost it or left it somewhere. I need to keep my nails short. it's difficult to use my phone with long nails.

I have a bunch of stuff that I have to get rid of. For one reason or another I developed a habit of buying hammers or different designs and styles. I won't use most of these ever. I have no use for these.

Stay where the people are rather than
going to that place where the invisible
people are. That's where the nest is and
where the birds go.

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 16

...

I have this issue where, I still come across the: ilovekristin@chestnutandhazel.com email, even in places where I really don't think I set it up. It happened just a few minutes ago. I've been using info@chestnutandhazel.com most of the time when setting up new accounts that require an email.

...

Butter is not the Answer # 15

I think about times in my life where I'm going through the kinds of things I'm going through right now. I don't know how to describe how it's different this time, but it is different. It's different because things are confusing; I'm confused about how to deal with; I'm confused about how to move forward, and I'm confused about what to do next, but things aren't really all that bleak right now, things really aren't all that hopeless. Things are just confusing. I just really don't know what to do next.

I think that I'm just going to operate under the assumption that Nevada is where I'm going to be for now, and I'll just go through with getting a Nevada Driver's License, and Nevada Plates.

...

What I'm trying to figure out right now is whether or not to get a Nevada Driver's License, and Nevada Plates. These are things that should be taken care of after moving to Nevada, but I'm not sure if I've really moved here. I'm not really sure if I've really "moved" to Nevada. 

...

A few hours ago, I went to the grocery store and bought a rotisserie chicken, and an order of potato salad, but I'm just not hungry enough to finish all of this. I have been gaining weight, and I have been getting fatter, but I've been a lot less hungry as well. I really need to get back to work. These last few months have been kind of a waste of time, if I think of them in terms of how they've added to my overall progress in life, but they've been interesting, and sometimes I think that maybe these interesting events in life, these interesting life events, do add to a person's overall life progress.

...

what the hell do I have to think of right now? i'm just worried about the future, but not in a way, where, i'm freaking out or losing my mind, or, where i feel like bad things are on the horizon. i guess i'm anxious about the future, and about what to do in the coming months. i start work on the 22nd, i don't anticipate anything going wrong. the idea of going back to dallas / fort worth and going back to school is somewhere in the back of my mind, but what is the most intelligent thing for me to do?

...

Postcards from Tennessee # 15 

...

Poem

Butter is not the Answer # 17

say whatever you
want about whatever
your opinion is, and when
you say it you can feel free
to say it at the top of
your lungs, but whatever
you say, and whatever
your point of view
is. just know that 
butter is not the answer.
it's not, it's really not the
answer.

...

Poem

Butter is not the Answer # 16

it's possible to drown most
of the problems of life, the struggles
the ups and downs, and even 
many of the sadnesses you face
with olive oil, and wine, and whine
but just be aware
of the fact that butter is not the answer.
you think that crispy chicken is 
created with the buttery goodness
of something other than lard and
hydrogenated soybean oil?
Think Again! It's something else!
not butter! butter is not the answer!

...

Poem

Butter is not the Answer # 15

there aren't very many questions
and there are even fewer qualified
answers to those questions and there
are even fewer answers that are valid
and true
and you know with
great certainty that
butter is not the answer

Part of what I'm doing right now
is cutting out things that really
aren't related to this post.
butter is not the answer, 
and some of the stuff is old
tweets that, in retrospect,
were kind of disturbing.

Butter Is Not The Answer,
when you write things that
are disturbing. or rather
when I write things that are
disturbing; I won't always know
at that particular moment that 
what I wrote was off, or odd. 
BUTTER IS NOT THE ANSWER!

...

I while ago, and this was during one of my road trips, I was at a kind of shopping center, I wouldn't call it a mall because it wasn't all indoors, and I wouldn't call it an outlet shopping center, because, it really wasn't focused on discounts, but whatever it was, I really didn't go shopping, I spent my time going to the restaurants there. I think I went to three different restaurants, and at the last restaurant I went to there was this guy, an older man, and he was with his wife. I ordered a shot of gin, and, out of nowhere he says something like: "Gin, I haven't had gin since I was in my early twenties and vomited all over the place."

He was obviously trying to get a reaction out of me. I don't know what happened afterward, but there was kind of a discussion back and forth, and he eventually left, I'm not sure if he ordered anything, or if he was just loitering at the bar, pretending that he was going to spend a lot of money, and then, used his kind of, unpleasantness as a kind of pretext or reason for not ordering anything.

...

but I've noticed that over the past few months, that people at restaurants can be kind of. They interact with me in a way that suggests that they really don't want me there. or they want me to leave. I'm just there, and I'm just fucking eating.

...

but I think about different times, and different places that i've felt like i was being pushed out of. some things are related, and some things aren't. and trying to figure out which things are related, and which aren't related is something i kind of have to figure out.

...

I think of iteration in engineering
as being similar to evolution in biology

one benefit to smaller teams and individualized
development projects is that the the iterations

can progress in isolation, and the products created
iterate divergent from a kind of mainstream, 

...

alright. done. i really didn't give 
the computer shopping thing too 
much thought. or time. but i need 
to also look at laptop computers. 
i think during this search. i focused 
on tablet computers. and then I realized
that I would rather wear a hat on my
head. so that's what i did. he also seemed
like a total jerk when he called me asking
me to appear at his office in person.

...

is there anything that I need to do? 
yes! okay. so I remember. i have 
to look at computers for school.

...

what the hell was it that 
i was thinking about?
well. I'll tell you:

I was thinking about how butter
is clearly not the answer to your 
problem, a problem known as 
making bland and boring and
tasteless food. that's your problem
and honestly, butter is not the answer.

...

is there anything that i need to do today? 
i checked my UTA email, but i don't think 
that i would have had a response 
over the weekend.

...

is there anything that I need to fucking do today? i spent most of the day goofing off. i stayed up late the previous night and i've hardly had any sleep. well. except for the fact that i slept for most of the day today. but before i slept most of the day today. i didn't have much sleep.


What I'm I dealing with right now? I tried withdrawing from the MSQF program at UTA, but it's not as simple as clicking a button and withdrawing, and dropping out, if it was that easy, that's probably what I would have done; on the one hand, I don't really want to drop out, and on the other hand, I don't really see myself going back to the Dallas / Fort Worth area.

I really don't see myself ever going back to the Dallas/ Fort Worth area, but it's possible that one circumstance or another might lead me right back there. It was one circumstance or another that brought me to the Dallas / Fort Worth area in the first place, maybe one circumstance or another might bring me back there, but I really don't see that happening.

Who knows what could happen between now and December? Anything in the universe could happen between now and December, and so it might make sense for me to keep my options open, and that's kind of why I'm seeking "incompletes" for my courses, rather than withdrawing from the courses completely and dropping out of the MSQF program. 

While I'm here in Las Vegas I should probably find work. One of the issues about finding work here in Las Vegas is that once I start looking for work and once I start really setting myself up here in Las Vegas, it becomes less and less likely that I'll return to Dallas / Fort Worth. I didn't really have anything going on for me, other than graduate school, that was really keeping me in Dallas / Fort Work, and I was facing a number of issues in addition to not really being able to get anything done in terms of course work and in terms of studying, I had a number of problems going on that I really would rather not mention.

...

I might need to get an emissions inspection for Nevada, but I'm not really sure. I bought my car new; I registered it in Missouri, then transferred registration to Texas, and now I'm trying to register my car in Nevada, and I'm not sure what the "three registrations exemption" refers to. Even though I've registered in two different states, and this Nevada move will be a third registration, I'm thinking that the number of registrations refers to the number of different times a vehicle has been registered by different owners, and not by the same owner re-registering in different states multiple times.

...

With the Nevada DMV website down there isn't really anything for me to work on, but, even if it was up, there isn't really much for me to work on right now. I think that I have whatever I need to get registered and set up in Nevada, and I think that I really just have to wait until I start work.

I was thinking about setting up an online store to sell the stuff I don't need, but like this is mostly just used stuff that I need to sell. I could donate it all, but I don't get the experience of setting up an online store, though. I think that I'll try it. 

...

This is actually the best name I can come up with for the series. The first post had something in the way of a million different names, I kept changing it, but I think that I'll keep this name and leave it this way. I think that I started with Postcards from Tennessee, but that title series seemed inappropriate because I really wasn't in Tennessee for more than a few days, and I only wrote a handful of posts while I was there, and then, Butter is not the Answer was amusing, but I don't know what to do with that one. When it comes to figuring out like, everything else, I'm kind of lost. I really don't know what to do, or, I really don't have any kind of grand plan or anything.

...

Dropping my classes at UTA and withdrawing from the MSQF program is kind of rolling at this point. I thought briefly that, somehow it may have been possible to. I have no idea, stay enrolled, and then attend next semester, and hope for a different outcome, but the odds are really against me. I mean I would have to drive from Las Vegas to Dallas and back once a week if I pursued that course of action, or maybe I would live in Dallas, or maybe I would relocated right back to Texas after relocating to Nevada? A lot of those ideas simply weren't workable.

Even though I set up an appointment to visit the Nevada DMV, it's actually possible to just walk in, without an appointment. I don't know what to do about the whole emissions inspection crap. I don't really think that I actually need to get one, I think that my vehicle is exempt, but I don't want to spend all day at the DMV waiting in line, just to be told to come back, and spend a whole day waiting in line again because I actually do need an emissions inspection.

Reading my horoscope. There is really no consistent message from the various horoscope writers. Sometimes I just look for something encouraging. I remember doing this a while ago, but what I remember is that nothing that I read from the horoscopes really leads me in one direction or another. One horoscope will advise me against doing such and such activity, and another will advise me to be proactive and get involved in such and such activity that the previous horoscope just advised against pursuing. So. Whatever.

...

This is actually pretty cool. My work shoes arrived. Um, the other thing that was pretty interesting was that my Assumed Name filings have been registered with Tarrant County, but there seems to be a delay with the Assumed Name filings that I submitted registrations for the with Secretary of State of Texas. A lot of this stuff is kind of unnecessary, I don't really have any buyers for any of my writing, or my content, or anything creative that I've produced.

...

I legitimately don't know what the hell to do. I'm really fucking. Like lost here. The best thing. The best idea I have right now is to wait and see, maybe something will pop up. Just work and get settled in. I'm hoping for overtime, it makes it easier to save a larger percentage of my earnings, but I'm thinking, maybe, maybe I might do some gig work or something. Or find a part time second job. I'm irritated that the UTA thing is basically over, but I don't really think that I'm done pursuing graduate school. I'm where to go from here.

...

This is actually pretty cool. My work shoes arrived. Um, the other thing that was pretty interesting was that my Assumed Name filings have been registered with Tarrant County, but there seems to be a delay with the Assumed Name filings that I submitted registrations for the with Secretary of State of Texas. A lot of this stuff is kind of unnecessary, I don't really have any buyers for any of my writing, or my content, or anything creative that I've produced.

...























































































So, even though I haven't lived in California in a long time, technically I'm a legal resident of California, I haven't lived in any other state for longer than five fucking years. 1 in Nevada, 2 in Missouri, 2.5 in Texas.

hum. well, uta doesn't have a creative writing program. there is an mfa program, but it seems to be for studio art or visual art. i'm working on an application to UNLV, the earliest semester for admission to the mfa program is fall 2023

...

Sometimes when I'm watching documentaries on historical battles I get into this mood where I want to waste time playing Total War on my computer. I know that playing computer games really doesn't accomplish anything, but so many things in life don't really accomplish anything anyway. So, what does it matter? My computer was running really slow, and it continues to run slow under certain circumstances, but I messed around with it and turned off a bunch of programs that were running in the background, and it seems to be working better. I was seriously considering buying a new computer, but I don't think that I will unless it runs horribly slow.

...

























...

















...

I have to tell you this because
it may be
relevant to
the question

You seek to answer and it may
be what you
need to know
to satiate the
obsessions that

are eating away at your mind and
every thought
you have:
GUESS WHAT! 
BUTTER! IS!
NOT THE!
ANSWER!!!

...

Everything is kind of a disaster right now. Really. everything is a total nightmare disaster kind of ninth circle of hell situation right now. I don't know where to go from here, and I really don't know what direction to take things to make things better, but I just don't know what the hell to do right now. This is a nightmare. My thinking right now is that I have to stop and restrategize.

Anyway. I do have something funny to say, and it's this: I feel an affinity with UK Prime Minister Liz Truss; I dropped out of grad school after six weeks! I just was not able. To accomplish a fucking thing. There are a number of lingering issues with withdrawing from the MSQF program at UTA and it's really just not as simple or as easy as saying: "look, I fucking quit!" In fact, based on the particular situation I'm facing right now, I basically asked for my request to withdraw from the MSQF program to be reversed.

When I think about these last four years, from the time I left the Las Vegas area, until now, where I'm back in the Las Vegas area, I think about the two years I spent in Missouri, and about the two years I spent in Texas, I feel like in either of those two year blocks of time I really would have been happy just working and saving money, and eventually, doing something, but what? I have no idea. In both cases everything I saved more or less evaporated and I had to start again. 

There are times when things are okay, and times when things start not going well, and then times when things start to go to hell again.

...

I reverted the layout to something similar to how the blog used to be. I just didn't really like the new template. I did manage to clean a few things up, and I think that I'm going to retitle things as I come across them, and maybe change a few things here and there. I don't really know what I want to do with this thing. There is a possible thing that's going to be an issue in the near future, unless something changes, but this is potentially a disaster, a near term disaster. I don't even really want to go into details right now because this is really bad. Potentially. but who knows. It's never really possible to completely leave things behind, sometimes there's always something that goes with you. There are always a few things that come with you even after you go. Which is kind of a nightmare. I think. Well, we will find out. I'm deleting things even though I've previously been averse to deleting things. From my blog. I mean.
 
...

...

The other day I was thinking that it's really nice to be tired because it's really nice to fall asleep as a result of being tired, rather than falling asleep because I have nothing better to do.

I want to go into the details about the issues I'm facing in terms of UTA and the DOE student loans and all the nonsense I have to deal with. I'm just finding it difficult to explain. I'm pissed about the way things turned out this first semester, but I'm not totally burned to the point of being completely deterred from going to graduate school.

There are certain things that I need right now, but that I can hold off on. I need an oil change, and tires. she's cute, and. she's kind of talking to herself. and it seems like a very engaging conversation. maybe she's singing.

I'm kind of tired. There was an opportunity to sign up for overtime after the end of my shift this morning, so I signed up. In a way I kind of want to take it easy, but really, the best thing to do is take any overtime that I can get and get my finances back in order. I'm sure there will be time to relax later. I think about how I kind of didn't really do anything for the last several months, and I think that if I could have done things differently, I would have done nothing in a way that would be more enjoyable.

...

I was so tired toward the end of my shift last night. I haven't worked in five months or so, and I guess my body just needs to get back into the rhythm of working again. At the end of my shift I went to the gas station to get food, and I was just shocked with how expensive it was. I had three hot dogs and a soda refill, and I guess I won't be going to that gas station again, for breakfast anyway. I still might need gas, and who knows when or where I'll need gas. I'm sure that my life is going to get on track again, but this is going to be a long journey back to, you know, where ever the hell I was financially. I think about those times after a natural disaster when people rebuild their towns and homes and cities, and I think about my life and how I'm rebuilding my life after this disaster that happened over the last few months of my life. Disaster. Rebuild. Grow. Live. Disaster. Rebuild. Grow. Live.

I'm thinking about something, and this something is stressing me out right now.

I'm at work, and my mobile service provided doesn't really have much of a connection in this part of town.

...

This is where
you are and 
where you will
always be because

this is where the 
rainbow ends
and this is where
the pot of gold is
and this is where
leprechauns hang
out and here you
can tell me what

you are looking for in terms of
gold and silver and there was nothing
there for anyone to do and there was
nothing interesting that may have been
there and you can see what the end of
the taste is and you can sense what
you continue to feel. why do you feel
that way? ask yourself and you will
come up with an answer, but it might
or it might not be the right answer.

...

I really want to buy 
some new clothes 
right now, but I just 
don't need any.

and I don't know if this is the
kind of thing that I should do
anyway to elevate my mood.

I think that there are times when
I skimp on simple pleasures, only
to really obliterate my money on
other things that I really do not
enjoy or appreciate or even really
want to spend any of my money on.

...

Outside it sounds like
it's raining, but when I
go outside it turns out
that it's not raining. It's
just the wind blowing
through the leave of
the trees, and the sound
that this process makes
resembles the sound of
rain. That's what it was.
It wasn't butter melting
on a stove nor was it rain.
it was just the wind 
blowing through the 
leaves of the trees.

...

I wanted to tell you something, but I never had the chance to do so because I was driven off by some, well, I was driven off by the lady at the bar who told me that she was going to have to ask me to leave. She told me that she was going to have to ask me to leave, and I'm not sure why, I think that the issue was that my nails were dirty, and I think that the issue was that the brunette was there, yeah, that one, but who knows, who knows? Nobody knows because no one knows who the brunette is? she is someone that nobody knows because her identity was reduced to something other than what it used to be the other day. She has a new name. It was funny seeing that Gordo's Barbecue was shut down. I liked that place.

...

Why do I keep looking at
the very reason that I
ever got started

Why.
why do I keep looking?
an idea? a reason?
a thought?
what?

how do I express what.
how do I put this into
words? 

maybe the answer is never!
and maybe that's the way it
goes! anyway.

in other news: personal news
of course! i'm thinking that i'll
just settle the tab and close out.
i mean. as far as school goes.

...

that was the way it happened. and I'm not really feeling all that great about it.

I'm ultra-tired. I have two more days of the work week, but I'm tired. Well. I'm not really tired, it's just that I haven't fallen asleep since I came back from work. I can't take time-off, I can't take time off in general, but especially between now and April. I basically have my year planned out: nothing interesting between now and April, then from April to August still nothing interesting, then it's winter. It's 2023, and this is the one-millionth time I've had to put things back together after everything fell apart.

...

I'm thinking mainly about April. This is one of those cases where I'm anticipating coming in slightly short of my goal, but it does seem possible that I might make it if I squeeze, and maybe get a little lucky.

...

In terms of my finances. The main thing is getting through until April. Tax season. Then I have to focus on paying off my credit cards. I'm not sure how long that will take. There hasn't been much overtime lately, and honestly, there have been several times when I've wanted to take time off but didn't because I kind of can't really afford to.

Lean times.

I don't anticipate getting a tax refund. During the months I wasn't working in 2022 I was basically running on my IRA money, and I'm sure I'm looking at a fat penalty. Nightmare.

...

Repayment on my student loans begins in April. Nightmare.

...

I want to take a few things to the thrift store donation center. I've been meaning to do this, but I just haven't gotten around to it.

...

Someone I used to work with at the tractor warehouse died. He died about a year and a half ago. I looked him up online, but I couldn't find a cause of death or anything, only that he died at the hospital. It seems that he was working at a car dealership in town at the time.

I wasn't really thinking about him or anything, it's just that I was looking through my old Facebook memories and I came across a post with a few likes from my old co-workers from the tractor warehouse, and then came across a post mentioning his death about a year ago, and then I did a web search and came across his obituary.

...

About a week ago I went to Lee's Sandwiches to get a Banh Mi sandwich. I ended up ordering and eating three of them. The location is half an hour away from where I live, so, even though there have been other times when I've wanted to eat one, I simply didn't do it because it would be an hour in driving time to get a sandwich.

...

I bought my new computer primarily to play Victoria 3, but I really haven't gotten around to buying Victoria 3 or even playing it. Most of the time I've spent playing on my new computer I've spent playing Civilization 6. 

...

I'm worried about the future. I anticipate that my budget is going to be extremely tight through April, and then continue to be extremely tight after that while I pay off my credit cards, and then find out if these student loans are going to be forgiven or not. I still have a credit card balance from the road trip I took to Louisiana back in February of 2022.

...

There are two things that I have to manage in my personal life, and they sometimes seem to be at odds. One is my energy levels, and the other is my mood. I try to elevate my mood by staying up after work and playing on the computer, but this reduces the amount of time I spend sleeping, but if I sleep for the full 11 or whatever hours of free time I have, then I seem to be grouchy, but if I'm tired, I also end up grouchy.

...

These last few weeks have been really long. Long hours each week. I did kind of want to take the day off when a notice for a VTO opportunity came up, but since I put in so many hours this week, I don't really want to take off an overtime day, a day that would be entirely overtime pay. 

...


I finally came around to buying a new laptop computer. I spent about 550. It's an Acer that I bought on Amazon. I wanted a new computer to play Victoria 3, but I have a whole bunch of games in my Steam library that I haven't played because whatever computer I had when I bought them wasn't powerful enough to play them.

I think that the last time I bought a computer that required some shopping was in 2016 when I was at the Littoral house, just before moving into Sonata's. I ruined it in 2018 at some point when I was in Missouri, I fucked up the keyboard, but the computer still worked, and then I bought a replacement a few years later, I think in 2020 just before leaving Missouri.

...

I bought this mango smoothie that I thought was just a regular bottle of juice and I was shocked that it was four dollars. It honestly wasn't worth four dollars in my opinion. There's this brand of juice products that I really like that I get used to buying back in Arlington. I think it's called Jumex, and their juices come in paperboard boxes.

...

I've taken time off here and there over the past few weeks, just a few hours before the end of the shift if I was feeling fabulously exhausted. My phone really doesn't seem to have a good connection anywhere I go around here, so I have trouble doing any blogging, but I really don't have anything interesting to update on. I really don't have anything going on.

...

📮5892 Losee RD STE 132 PMB 176, North Las Vegas, NV 89081-6200 📧 info@chestnutandhazel.com ‎‎☎+1-816-724-5293

...





Today is the last day of the work week for me.

...

I have today off, and I'm just getting regular stuff done, reviewing my finances, doing laundry, looking at my work schedule. I want to close a number of my accounts, but at the same time, I don't want to close them. The benefit is that I would be better able to manage my money if I had fewer accounts, and if I could consolidate and concentrate my positions, but, I really don't have a ton of money anyway.

...

I'm really fucking tired. I had to buy a new phone there other day because my previous phone broke, the battery just wouldn't charge up anymore. This is probably the first phone I've ever replaced for this reason. I don't know why I'm tired. Well, I do know why I'm tired: I didn't get much sleep. I went to sleep as soon as I got home, and I felt fully rested as soon as I woke up a few hours later, but I didn't go back to sleep, so I'm running on maybe 3 hours of rest.

...

I want to buy a new laptop. Well, I don't really want to buy a new laptop, what I really want is to play a new computer game: Victoria 3, but I would need a new laptop in order to play Victoria 3. This is another thing that reminds me of the last time I was in Las Vegas four years ago: I wanted to play Grand Theft Auto 5, and I remember needing a new laptop. I didn't buy a new laptop. I bought a console instead.

...

it's the start of another work week. a few hours ago i really felt like putting in time off. i dont have enough for a full shift, but i could have put in a few hours, but right now im doing okay.

...

I went to the Nevada DMV and completed my Nevada Driver's License Request and Vehicle Registration. There was some kind of confusion at the appointments desk where the clerk wasn't sure if I had the correct documents to complete my Vehicle Registration, but the clerk that actually handled the paperwork was ultimately able to process my Vehicle Registration for Nevada.

There was also a kind of question about personalized / vanity plates, and nothing that I wanted was available. I really just wanted 33507, this is supposed to be LOSEE, but I guess it wasn't available or something. There were about 9 other plate numbers I had, but none of them were available.

The Nevada DMV had me surrender my Texas License Plates. The Texas DMV said I could just keep them, but, I guess I had to surrender them.

I ended up taking the night off from work. I was really tired. I think that I got home from the DMV at around 2 PM, and I felt like I power napped because I was kind of ready to head out to work at 6 PM like I usually do, but, for whatever reason I took the night off.

I really don't know what to do about this whole. Nevada. Thing. I continue to run through the last few months I spent in Texas in my mind, and I really can't pinpoint why things happened the way they did, why things turned out the way they did, but I could swear that everything was just going straight to hell for me there, as though I had no other choice but to get out of there. It just wasn't going well, I don't know what else to say, but then again, I'm not sure Texas was really ever easy to begin with.

...

About my breakfast at the Cannery the other morning: the style of the fish and chips reminded me of this one place I used to go to in Sunnyvale, California on El Camino Real. Someone once clarified different styles to me before, but just two, and this style isn't like either style. I don't really remember. I have to look this up and write it down.

...

I went to the Cannery Casino this morning to have breakfast. I went here a few days back really early in the morning, I want to say 2:00 AM or something in the morning, and none of the restaurants at the Cannery were open, but the Victory Café was open this morning when I went. I ordered Fish & Chips and a soda, and I spent 28 dollars, which is more than I really wanted to spend, given my current financial picture.

I was originally on my way to the Golden Corral, but I figured I'd check out the Cannery, since I tried to go there last time, but it wasn't open.

I have the hiccups really bad right now.

I have a new spreadsheet. I remember the one that I made when I first came to Vegas in 2018, There were several revisions over the years. The current one I use is focused mainly on totaling my assets, and my liabilities (debts) and I have an emphasis on paying down my credit cards. In 2018 I was focusing on planning out each individual paycheck, and throwing whatever was left into the stock market.

I bought socks and a belt.

...

i was craving sun chips earlier, so i went to the grocery store and bought some. they don't seem to be a whole lot less expensive at the grocery store than they are at the cafeteria.

...

I don't really know what to do right now. I'm bored. I was hungry, but I'm not hungry any more. I'm working on my budget on an off, here and there. I have one unusual expense, unusual in the sense that it's a sporadic expense, and it's the driver's license and vehicle registration expense that I'll experience next week.

...

Last day of the work week. I'm trying to think about what to do with my days off.

...

Well, sometimes I think that I haven't accomplished anything, but, maybe it depends on how I look at it. I did register a web domain. I registered a business name, and I registered several copyrights. I went on several road trips.

...

I'm still not really enthusiastic about being back in Las Vegas. I'm unhappy about it. I'm glad I got back in touch with my mom; I haven't really talked to her since I left four years ago, and I'm happy that I'm working again, but I really can't stand being back in Las Vegas. Simply being in Las Vegas is this constant reminder that I haven't really accomplished anything since I fucking left. Nightmare.

...

I still feel like I have way too much stuff. I've gotten rid of most of the stuff I do. Well. Actually. What I mean is. I got rid of quite a bit of stuff that I don't need, but I still have a lot of stuff that I don't really need.

Dress shirts. I haven't needed dress shirts in a long time. But they're not really dressy. so I'm not sure that their dress shirts. I just don't anticipate needing them.

There are other things that I have that I don't really want to throw away, and I really don't want to give away either. but I don't really need them. and I don't really anticipate needing them.

today is the first day of the work week. i had three days off, and I'm trying to think about what i got done during those days off. did i accomplish anything?

...

There's this idea that keeps running through my head over and over again, and, I'm not sure what to do about it.

...

I'm hungry. I went to the gas station around 10 PM and bought a few hot dogs to eat, and I think I bought wings as well, but I'm still hungry, or, rather, right now it's 4 AM in the morning, and I've become hungry again. I'm thinking about how to approach the next year, and, I really just feel like this is going to be a long period, maybe not a long period, but a period of my life where nothing exciting happens. Nothing really exciting ever happens, and I almost want to say that nothing exciting has happened in the four years since I left Las Vegas, I did put together a bunch of money during that time, and that's about as exciting as things went. I just really don't know how to make the best of this return to Las Vegas.

...

There are kind of a few things on my mind right now. I'm optimistic about the future, but I'm also kind of distressed about the future at the same time; or I feel something like, something between feeling distressed and overwhelmed. Sometimes the feeling oscillates between feelings of optimism and distress.

It's November. I don't really know what to think about that. About it being November already.

...

I was thinking about heading out of town, out of the state and picking up a lottery ticket. Sometimes I just feel like. Sometimes I just get excited about the thought of winning the lottery, the Powerball or the Mega Millions jackpot, but, sometimes I think the reason I feel this way is because at one moment or another I might feel like there's just really nothing interesting going on in my life at the moment.

I closed my Cash App, Venmo, and PayPal accounts. I just don't really use them that often any more, and I figured it's better just to close them, and reopen them if I need to use them later in the future. One thing I would hate is for something to happen with those accounts, and have to deal with a huge problem for an account I don't really use, and like I mentioned, I could always reopen accounts with them if I find a use for their services again.

...

There was this feeling I had earlier, like I really felt like hitting the road and going somewhere.

...

I think that I'll work on something right now.

...

What am I thinking about right now? Well, I'm not really thinking much of anything. I got an oil change, and I ended up getting my transmission fluid changed as well. I still want to get my tires changed, but I don't really know how soon I need to do that. I could probably wait until I hit 60,000 miles on my odometer, and that's still a kind of conservative timeline to seek a tire change. The treads look fine.

...

Word Salad

This is where the admittance
starts and I have to tell you:

I never really liked her, she
was just the finest, most beautiful

woman I had ever seen up until
then, and have ever seen since.

There she was: eating leafy greens
out of a container full of leafy greens

and in that moment I thought:
She is the most beautiful woman

I've ever seen.

Remember that there are a number
of ways to protect the information

inside your brain: try not to use a
tin foil hat that fails to match your

hair color or skin tone because it will
be obvious to everyone around you

that you're wearing a
tin foil hat!

The Response

You're an idiot!
I'm mad at you and
I'm not sure I'll ever

get over how irritated I
am with you, maybe
in a million years!

Maybe Longer! Who 
Knows! YOU MIGHT
NEVER BE FORGIVEN!

Why am I so. Why am I. So.
I. I don't know what this is but
sometimes I just feel so unhappy.

and I really just
don't want to say why.
I really don't want to go into
details because I feel so silly
about why I feel so unhappy.

You're a liar.
and you know it.
a real liar and I
really don't like
you! LIAR!

come on give me a break.
I don't do it maliciously!

there are times when
i still really can't get
her out of my head.
in many ways i'm really
fucking sick of it. you
know. that i still think
about her.

I'm sick of it. I really am.
frustrations and struggles
and difficulties and stressors.
I would like things in life
to be easier and I would like
to get more of the things I want.

...











...





...












































Something interesting came in the mail today; it was marketing mail for business checking accounts from Citibank and US Bank, and they were addressed to Chestnut & Hazel. I wouldn't mind setting up business checking accounts for Chestnut + Hazel, but I really don't have any steady income from Chestnut + Hazel yet.

I made an effort set up an account to self publish a book. It would be the Chestnut Street series. I have to take a look at it and see what changes I would make to the text.

It's midnight. I'm hungry, and I don't know where to go to eat.

I went to the Cannery Casino to eat at the Victory Cafe, but it wasn't open. Google Maps said it was open 24 Hrs, but I guess that wasn't accurate, so I ended up at Bourbon Street Bar and Grill. I had wings, but I wasn't too excited about them, they just seemed excessively battered, but I was really hungry and I'm really not sure what other options I had.

Sometimes when I go out to eat I get the feeling that the food was microwaved after being pulled out of a bag from something I could have purchased from the frozen food section of the grocery store.

I went and got an oil change, which was something I've been meaning to do for a while, and when I was getting the oil change, the technician recommended that I get my transmission fluid changed, so I did that as well. I really don't want to spend more than I need to right now, but I know that I've put a hell of a lot of miles on my car over the last few months, so I need to weigh being cautious with my spending against the risks of unexpected car problems from skipping on maintenance now.

...

I have to think. I was thinking about pursuing a graduate certificate in Spanish Translation at UNLV. One issue is that out-of-state tuition would make this cost prohibitive, but it's possible that my time in Nevada during 2018 would count toward my status as a Nevada resident, this is something I have to look into, and I'd probably have to request records from the Nevada DMV.

That UTA thing was a total disaster. I'm trying to squeeze as much out of the experience as I can by going through the course material, but. Yeah, that was a real interesting way to flush $3,500 down the toilet.

I need to explore as many programs at as many universities as I can. I really would prefer an in-person program rather than something remote, or online. I'm still kind of hesitant to look at anything. I'm hesitant to pursue a different graduate program unless I know that it will be the right fit for me. I don't know if there is any possibility of heading back to Texas for one semester, and just taking two classes or whatever, but, who knows.

...

I really want to buy new pants, and a new belt, but I also really want to hold off on doing either, and yet, even though I really want to keep my spending as low as possible, I went out to eat earlier today and I went out for drinks the other day. I went out for drinks the other night, and it was supposed to be a kind of date, but, we didn't end up meeting up. I went to the place she wanted to meet up at, but she wasn't there. I waited for about an hour, and then went home, and like five minutes after I was on my way home, she said she was there, and that I should turn around and come back.

That was discouraging, so I'm going to take a break from online dating. This is the second time I deleted, second or maybe third time I've deleted a dating profile in the last month. I switched accounts for some of my autopay expenses, and I'm kind of just waiting until the switch over becomes active.

...

Queen of the Goths

she's cute, 
and. 
she's kind of talking to herself, 
and. 
it seems like a very 
engaging conversation,
but 
maybe she's singing,
and
she doesn't have a headset on,
so
she's either singing
from memory
or
talking to herself.

...

I settled the account with UTA. That was a fucking pain in the ass. I don't know how many times I've gone over this situation on my blog, but I'll go over it again. I was originally awarded 10500 in student loans, but after withdrawing from the MSQF program, that amount was reduced to about 8500, these are all rough numbers but they're close enough, anyway, I was asked to return 2000 dollars to the University, UTA, and I just remitted the payment of 2000 bucks a few minutes ago. Headache. I really wasn't prepared for this. Anyway. I was really going to put this whole ordeal off for a while, but when I looked into my student loan account, or the account that services my student loans, I noticed that they adjusted the student loan amount from 10500 to 8500, so I figured since the issue that I was worried about most has been fixed, then I guess I'm comfortable settling the balance with UTA. The issue that I was afraid of was paying twice, so to speak, but if the loan servicer adjusted the amount due, then there is no need to worry about paying twice, and that's why I figured I'd settle the tab at UTA.

...

The other day I was thinking that it's really nice to be tired because it's really nice to fall asleep as a result of being tired, rather than falling asleep because I have nothing better to do.

I want to go into the details about the issues I'm facing in terms of UTA and the DOE student loans and all the nonsense I have to deal with. I'm just finding it difficult to explain. I'm pissed about the way things turned out this first semester, but I'm not totally burned to the point of being completely deterred from going to graduate school.

There are certain things that I need right now, but that I can hold off on. I need an oil change, and tires. she's cute, and. she's kind of talking to herself. and it seems like a very engaging conversation. maybe she's singing.

I'm kind of tired. There was an opportunity to sign up for overtime after the end of my shift this morning, so I signed up. In a way I kind of want to take it easy, but really, the best thing to do is take any overtime that I can get and get my finances back in order. I'm sure there will be time to relax later. I think about how I kind of didn't really do anything for the last several months, and I think that if I could have done things differently, I would have done nothing in a way that would be more enjoyable.

...

I was so tired toward the end of my shift last night. I haven't worked in five months or so, and I guess my body just needs to get back into the rhythm of working again. At the end of my shift I went to the gas station to get food, and I was just shocked with how expensive it was. I had three hot dogs and a soda refill, and I guess I won't be going to that gas station again, for breakfast anyway. I still might need gas, and who knows when or where I'll need gas. I'm sure that my life is going to get on track again, but this is going to be a long journey back to, you know, where ever the hell I was financially. I think about those times after a natural disaster when people rebuild their towns and homes and cities, and I think about my life and how I'm rebuilding my life after this disaster that happened over the last few months of my life. Disaster. Rebuild. Grow. Live. Disaster. Rebuild. Grow. Live.

I'm thinking about something, and this something is stressing me out right now.

I'm at work, and my mobile service provided doesn't really have much of a connection in this part of town.

...

This is where
you are and 
where you will
always be because

this is where the 
rainbow ends
and this is where
the pot of gold is
and this is where
leprechauns hang
out and here you
can tell me what

you are looking for in terms of
gold and silver and there was nothing
there for anyone to do and there was
nothing interesting that may have been
there and you can see what the end of
the taste is and you can sense what
you continue to feel. why do you feel
that way? ask yourself and you will
come up with an answer, but it might
or it might not be the right answer.

...

I really want to buy 
some new clothes 
right now, but I just 
don't need any.

and I don't know if this is the
kind of thing that I should do
anyway to elevate my mood.

I think that there are times when
I skimp on simple pleasures, only
to really obliterate my money on
other things that I really do not
enjoy or appreciate or even really
want to spend any of my money on.

...

Outside it sounds like
it's raining, but when I
go outside it turns out
that it's not raining. It's
just the wind blowing
through the leave of
the trees, and the sound
that this process makes
resembles the sound of
rain. That's what it was.
It wasn't butter melting
on a stove nor was it rain.
it was just the wind 
blowing through the 
leaves of the trees.

...

I wanted to tell you something, but I never had the chance to do so because I was driven off by some, well, I was driven off by the lady at the bar who told me that she was going to have to ask me to leave. She told me that she was going to have to ask me to leave, and I'm not sure why, I think that the issue was that my nails were dirty, and I think that the issue was that the brunette was there, yeah, that one, but who knows, who knows? Nobody knows because no one knows who the brunette is? she is someone that nobody knows because her identity was reduced to something other than what it used to be the other day. She has a new name. It was funny seeing that Gordo's Barbecue was shut down. I liked that place.

...

Why do I keep looking at
the very reason that I
ever got started

Why.
why do I keep looking?
an idea? a reason?
a thought?
what?

how do I express what.
how do I put this into
words? 

maybe the answer is never!
and maybe that's the way it
goes! anyway.

in other news: personal news
of course! i'm thinking that i'll
just settle the tab and close out.
i mean. as far as school goes.

...

that was the way it happened. and I'm not really feeling all that great about it.

...

📮5892 Losee RD STE 132 PMB 176, North Las Vegas, NV 89081-6200 📧 info@chestnutandhazel.com ‎‎☎+1-816-724-5293

...




































but when you call
where I am 
you forgot 
to enter an area code
and so the call when to 
someone with that number
in the local area and you spoke
to someone else.

...





...

Moorpark # 8

Some of the oranges and some
of the lemons
and some of the limes
have been sold to the citrus cartels

and they have juiced them
and then they have sold he juice
to the juice cartels

and then they have mixed the juice with
soda water.

...

I have to go through a number of older, flagged posts and clean up my blog because it has been demonetized.

...

Napkeeno # 17

Five of the oranges
and three of the lemons and
two of the bergamots are

needed for the recipe and then
you need to juice them
and then you need to mix
the juice

...

Sometimes I buy snacks at work thinking that it will improve my mood or stave off dipping into a bad mood, but it never does, and I think that I'll just sort of stop doing it.

...

I was thinking back to my February 2022 to Louisiana road trip, and how, shortly after returning to Dallas-Fort Worth I came across an older blog post of mine with a crude sketch of a planned road trip to Louisiana I ended up going in the opposite direction. I planned on heading to San Antonio, then New Orleans, then Shreveport, then back to Dallas. Instead I went to Shreveport, New Orleans, San Antonio, then Dallas.
...

Somewhere in the back of my mind the idea of driving to Alaska something I still think about. This isn't something that I can do any time soon. I have to get through tax season, and then pay off all of my credit cards, which will take me through July 2023, at the absolute soonest.

...


























...

I was trying to think back to when I came back to Las Vegas, and it was early October. During my road trips I started smoking cigarettes again because it's easier to do so while driving, but it's expensive, so I switched back. I started making my own cigarettes again, and adding ground cloves to the tobacco. I came across clove cigars on my road trips, and I remembered smoking them back when I was at Evergreen, but I never really smoked them with any regularity.

I continue to feel really tired, but less moody than I have been over the last few months. I've been wearing earplugs at work.

...

I got my tires replaced. I'm tired. I was at the repair place for 4 hours.

...

I'm not too frustrated or stressed about having to change my tires because I've been planning on getting new ones, especially after all those months of road trips, but I was really hoping to put it off until August. This is 6 months early, and it really sucks because this is really not the best time.

...

I got a flat tire while going to the grocery store. This really throws off my plans for, you know, my plans through mid-April. I was hoping to hold off on getting new tires until June. This is way earlier than I was hoping. Anyway, the place didn't have my tire size in stock, so they're ordering them, and they'll be in on Monday, so in the meantime I'll be on my spare tire.

...

"He never hit me, he was never physically abusive, but he was always yelling at me for stupid bullshit like I said about going out. I'm a fucking adult, I should be able to go out if I fucking want to."

Damien orders another round of drinks. Long Island Iced Teas for the two of them. The continue talking about their hobbies and interests and places they would like to visit. Time goes by and the bar is about to close. Damien asks if she would like to head back to his place. Marissa declines but gives Damien her phone number. Damien goes back home and calls it a night.

"Short Story" by Kenneth Larot Yamat

Harold Price Myers

...



My cell connection in North Las Vegas is horrible. I might have to switch service providers. That's something I never thought I would have to do, and I'm really not sure I'll do it.

I'm also really tired all the time, and irritable.

...

When the oranges
in the blender begin
to separate fiber by fiber 

they begin to form into 
a liquid called orange juice and

what do you think that you
can do with what is called orange juice

Do you have any idea about what 

you can do ? do you?


...

465 648 111 452 452 563 985
156 156 124 364 362 982 223
781 226 512 236 629 892 925
314 528 814 314 525 702 777

...



















...











15 75 75 66 20 20 28 20 00 

19 09 58 08 68 01 17 06 53

19 00 03 19 36 2 11 39 97 46

19 09 00 58 08 68

19 00 03 19 36 20 11 39 97 46

19 09 05 08 0 08 06 08

19 09 05 08 00 08 06 08 01 17 06 05 03

19 00 19 36 19 0 03 19 36 20 11 39 97 46

11 68 02 00 18 68 19 25 18 68 18 72

17 77 93 00 11 00 19 03 19 08 19 03 19 08

03 15 13 05 15 14 19 28

19 41 02 80 00 18 22 18 36 18 20 18 35

44 31 11 22 88 80

03 15 13 05 15 14 19 28

05 19 25 03 17 95 03 15 13 17 95

05 01 00 04 15 15 00 00 38 01 01 00 06 

...













I like having a three day weekend. There was something I was thinking about just five seconds ago, and it just slipped my mind, but it came back to me just now. I wanted to mention that I played Rome Total War 2 today. I hadn't played it in such a long time.

I'm reading some of my Facebook Memories from over a decade ago, from 11 years ago, and some of them aren't publicly visible. They're posts that I've written to myself. I used Facebook as a kind of diary.

...

My work shoes arrived the other day. I think they look nice. I ordered sneakers; I haven't bought boots in a while.

I selected a mesh fabric, which is important because my feet get really sweaty.

...

I've been wanting to go somewhere for a while, but, I really haven't thought about where, or what I would do there. Salt Lake City has been on my mind, but, I really don't know what I would do, or if I would enjoy it.

Just looking at what a drive would be, it would be cheaper to fly there, but I wouldn't have my car.

...







...

I really need some new fucking shoes.
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

I really need some new fucking shoes.
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

Shared with Only me
but on the good side I'm keeping my hours there so far. And the schedule is a little bit more convenient.  Eight to one with no lunch
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

Shared with Only me
i dont have hella shit. But it feels like i have hella shit. All i really need are my work clothes and few non work outfits. I want to throw away most of my sweaters.
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

Shared with Only me
I'm outside of this buffet and i cant believe that it isn't fucking open. But then. I just had a diet coke and I'm not sure if I'm hungry anymore.
On this day
13 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2010

...

Shared with Public
the bingification of google. that's what's on my mind.

...

On this day
13 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2010
 
Shared with Public
the bingification of google. that's what's on my mind.

...

Shared with Only me
what scares me is what happens next. Shit. What the hell is going to happen next.
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

Shared with Public
what can i throw away. And what do i keep.
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

Shared with Only me
my room is kind of clean. I have to leave at three thirty. Im so fucking tired right now. I have to sort through everthing and stuff. I think that the key to keeping things clean is or the key to cleanliness is having fewer things to keep clean.
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

469 916 816 408 816 817 702 415 929 469 001
011 023 004 003 014 018 023 321 856 325 745

11 18 09 19 20 09 14 25 01 13 01 20 01 02 03 04
25 05 01 08 18 09 07 08 20 04 18 05 01 13 15 14
09 23 09 12 12 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11




I went to the buffet, had dinner. I guess I shouldn't be super discouraged or anything, but I'm definitely frustrated. I'm less frustrated than I was earlier, but, still frustrated.

I guess I kind of made 3.50, when I look at the cost basis of the shares I bought today against the shares I sold.

But, today was just so agonizing that I don't want to do it again. When I think back about how the trading day when, there was a point where I could have bought back in at 19.08, and that would have meant that I ended the day with the same number of shares that I started with, and made a profit, but, for some reason I didn't buy back in, I think that, at the time, I thought that I had to buy back in at 19.06 or less, so I was holding out, but then the share price rose to the point where buying back in was more or less hopeless, and then out of frustration I sold everything, and in retrospect I shouldn't have done that either because, I could have sold those shares for slightly more than I sold them for.

I'm not completely done with day trading, or active investing, or active trading, it's just that I think that I need to re-work my approach. I don't want to buy back into VFC and try again. I'll just do something else, but, yeah, that was a real headache.

...

I experienced a moment of very intense frustration earlier. Maybe tomorrow will be a better day. I almost thought about taking off to Salt Lake City, but, then I thought never mind. I don't like going into details, but I guess I will. I've had a hard time with my position in VFC stock. Disaster. I entered a position back in February, and it's done nothing but crater ever since. I kept doubling down for a few months, and it continued to drop, so, I had to re-strategize. My goal was to reduce my position size slowly by buying a few shares, and selling that new position with a fraction more with each sell. I'd buy 5.95 shares and sell 6.00, and do that throughout the day. 

Then I ran into a problem, Cash Accounts aren't subject to the Pattern Day Trade rule the same way that Margin Accounts are, but Cash Accounts are still subject to a kind of Good Faith Violations rule, or a settled cash rule, and this turned out to be a pain in the neck. The number of round trips I can make in a day isn't fixed, but it's still limited buy the settlement of the purchase of shares, and the proceeds of any sell of shares.

At some point I realized that I could actually do things in the opposite direction as well, sell 6.00 shares, and buy 5.95 shares afterward, and the effect would be the same, or similar, and I would do this as the share price fell. I ended up selling more shares than I wanted to, and the opposite happens when I do things the other way around, I end up with more shares than I want to hold onto when I buy and sell, and I end up selling more shares than I want to when I sell, and then buy.

In a bout of frustration I ended up selling all my shares, and when I thought about buying back in, I thought: fuck this, I'm out of it, and, you know, do I really want to go back in on something that has caused me such intense frustration? The answer is no. So you know, I guess that's over.

It really made me think about how so many things in my life just don't seem to work out for me. So many fucking things just don't seem to work out for me.

Well, I guess I didn't lose a huge amount of money, but I'm more or less done with day trading for the time being.

...

Success just seems to be so elusive for me, whether it's success in the workplace, or, with investing, or, with artistic pursuits, or, educationally, or, with sexual and romantic pursuits.

I'd like to come up with a list of all the things I've given up on, the things I've lost interest in.

...

Why can't I just win for once? This is so irritating.

...

One of the things in life that I really hate, it that everything seems to be so much easier for everyone else. I'm having a hard time, and, nothing ever seems to get much easier.

...

I think about the things in life that elude me. Here we go. I never get anything that I want.

...

Oh, I actually do have something to say. Lint pills. They are a nightmare, I was using a cuticle cutter to remove them, but then I remembered how I used to deal with this: by using a razor blade, the kind of shaving, a Bic razor blade. It works like a charm. I found an old kitchen knife that I used for removing lint pills from my pants, I bought the kitchen knife back when I was living in Arlington, but, when I found it, it was rusty. I was surprised that it was rusty because the knife was a stainless steel knife, but, whatever, it was rusty, so I threw it in the recycling bin.

...

Anyway. I don't really know what to say right now.

...

56 50 60 40 10 90 40 06 22 11 23
23 00 20 30 01 45 03 22 04 02 14
37 05 40 10 36 29 60 03 03 00 25
13 29 05 29 86 26 31 80 05 33 80
08 18 19 83 07 17 11 54 11 33 08
14 15 26 28 43 57 16 08 07 14 12
09 04 15 14 20 11 14 15 23 23 08 

15 20 08 05 06 21 03 11 09 19 06 
21 03 14 25 36 78 54 12 32 01 23
11 09 14 07 10 10 12 14 14 12 21 
23 09 20 08 13 02 21 20 20 08 09 
19 08 84 85 65 58 52 32 14 14 25
09 19 01 18 05 01 12 20 05 01 19 
05 91 95 25 35 21 25 32 25 85 74
04 01 12 12 01 19 41 74 85 25 78

...

19 08 84 85 65 58 52 32 14 14 25
09 19 01 18 05 01 12 20 05 01 19 
30 19 28 23 19 75 36 19 70 11 23

...

29 04 15 14 20 11 14 15 23 23 08 
15 33 12 52 23 21 85 74 25 95 15
09 19 01 18 05 01 12 20 05 01 19 
30 19 28 23 19 75 36 19 70 11 23
20 08 05 06 21 03 11 09 19 06 21 
03 11 09 14 07 77 07 07 77 74 74
23 09 20 08 13 02 21 20 20 08 09 
19 11 23 04 11 23 25 11 23 25 11
09 19 01 18 05 01 12 20 05 01 19 
05 03 14 03 14 03 14 08 14 03 14
06 05 06 13 20 23 01 07 06 15 20 
23 12 08 06 15 20 23 24 07 03 14
06 05 06 13 20 23 01 07 06 15 20 
23 12 08 06 15 20 23 24 07 03 14
06 05 06 13 20 23 01 07 06 15 20 
23 12 08 06 15 20 23 24 07 88 11
22 20 07 10 16 25 48 49 00 01 02
43 19 08 17 04 01 12 12 01 19 09 
16 08 16 08 17 09 17 09 29 04 43

...

005 003 014 003 014 003 014 008 014 003 014
033 979 033 232 079 000 068 013 626 048 314
053 016 000 039 043 072 059 003 058 000 008
006 005 006 013 020 023 001 007 006 015 020 
230 102 008 006 105 200 203 204 007 314 081
011 023 004 003 014 011 012 025 011 023 025 
011 023 025 014 011 012 025 011 025 012 314
106 205 306 413 520 623 701 807 906 015 120 
123 212 308 406 515 620 723 824 907 031 145
006 005 006 013 020 023 001 007 006 015 020 
123 102 008 006 015 020 023 024 007 159 265
022 020 007 010 016 025 048 409 001 002 003
...









...




















































I like having a three day weekend. There was something I was thinking about just five seconds ago, and it just slipped my mind, but it came back to me just now. I wanted to mention that I played Rome Total War 2 today. I hadn't played it in such a long time.

I'm reading some of my Facebook Memories from over a decade ago, from 11 years ago, and some of them aren't publicly visible. They're posts that I've written to myself. I used Facebook as a kind of diary.

...

My work shoes arrived the other day. I think they look nice. I ordered sneakers; I haven't bought boots in a while.

I selected a mesh fabric, which is important because my feet get really sweaty.

...

I've been wanting to go somewhere for a while, but, I really haven't thought about where, or what I would do there. Salt Lake City has been on my mind, but, I really don't know what I would do, or if I would enjoy it.

Just looking at what a drive would be, it would be cheaper to fly there, but I wouldn't have my car.

...







...

I really need some new fucking shoes.
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

I really need some new fucking shoes.
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

Shared with Only me
but on the good side I'm keeping my hours there so far. And the schedule is a little bit more convenient.  Eight to one with no lunch
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

Shared with Only me
i dont have hella shit. But it feels like i have hella shit. All i really need are my work clothes and few non work outfits. I want to throw away most of my sweaters.
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

Shared with Only me
I'm outside of this buffet and i cant believe that it isn't fucking open. But then. I just had a diet coke and I'm not sure if I'm hungry anymore.
On this day
13 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2010

...

Shared with Public
the bingification of google. that's what's on my mind.

...

On this day
13 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2010
 
Shared with Public
the bingification of google. that's what's on my mind.

...

Shared with Only me
what scares me is what happens next. Shit. What the hell is going to happen next.
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

Shared with Public
what can i throw away. And what do i keep.
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

Shared with Only me
my room is kind of clean. I have to leave at three thirty. Im so fucking tired right now. I have to sort through everthing and stuff. I think that the key to keeping things clean is or the key to cleanliness is having fewer things to keep clean.
On this day
11 years ago
Kenneth Larot Yamat
June 10, 2012

...

469 916 816 408 816 817 702 415 929 469 001
011 023 004 003 014 018 023 321 856 325 745

11 18 09 19 20 09 14 25 01 13 01 20 01 02 03 04
25 05 01 08 18 09 07 08 20 04 18 05 01 13 15 14
09 23 09 12 12 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11


I must have been semi-serious about going because I packed my laptop. There were several times where I would go on a road-trip with nothing more than I would ordinarily carry: my wallet and phone, and that's it, not even an extra change of clothes. Serious.

One of the pictures I came across was a screenshot of my phone with the destination set to Las Vegas, it was from shortly after I left Cameron, Missouri and was staying the the Dallas - Fort Worth area, I hadn't taken up residence in Texas or anything at the time, I was just there I guess, staying at motels or whatever. At some point I remember thinking: fuck it, I'll just head back to Vegas, but on my way there I started having issues with my car, my car would shake if I went over 60 MPH. I ended up staying in Texas as a result.

I didn't get it fixed until a year later, and it turned out to be something cheap: my tires just needed to be balanced. It's not that I was trying to avoid the cost of getting it fixed at the time, or, maybe it was, or I don't really know. I do remember that I took it as a sign to just stick around. Azle, Texas is on the western edge of the Dallas - Fort Worth area, so I must have been heading to Vegas and stopped there.

Years later, when I got stuck in Jennings, Louisiana, I remember almost thinking that I should stay there. It was a small rural town and I remember having. I remember feeling nostalgic about living in Cameron, Missouri. I don't know why I decided against staying in Jennings, Louisiana. I remember not having my computer, and I'm thinking that I just wasn't able to look into apartments and jobs in the area. I remember, I eventually rented a U-Haul truck and a tow dolly and towed my car back into Dallas - Fort Worth.

I just went to the buffet and came back. Part of the reason I went was to get a fortune cookie, more than anything like being really hungry.  

The fortune cookie said: hidden reservoirs of strength are about to be discovered.

and I don't really know what to think about that. I don't need any trials and tribulations and shit right now that show me just how much strength and perseverance I really have.

I would prefer it has something to do with making a, you know, soul mate connection and, you know, I have all these reservoirs. of. you know. strength. hehe.

...

I'm feeling somewhat scatter brained right now. It's not like I've had a whole bunch of caffeine or anything, so I'm not sure why my thoughts are all over the place.

One thing I'm thinking about is that I've had since mid-April to pay off my credit cards, and, I should be able to pay them off by the end of August like I originally planned, and also, my thinking is that I actually can pay them off by the end of August.

...

So, at the beginning of the year I thought that I would only need until the end of August to pay off my credit cards, but it turns out that I would only be half way there by the end of August, and that's under somewhat ideal circumstances, what that means is that I'll probably be working on this until the end of the year, and fuck, student loan payments start in August. at the end of August, and that's just going to be another drag.

...

I ate around 3/3 of the pizza roll snacks in the back, and I'm kind of stomach sick, I was really hungry, but, I ate too much.

...

I went to the grocery store to get pizza snack roles, not Totino's, but the generic store brand version, which had more rolls at a lower price, Well, obviously, but I think they had 30 percent more rolls, and were 25 percent lower in price.

...

So yesterday, after I threw the towel in on day trading my way out of a loss in VFC stock, I figured I'd just stay in cash or something for a while, then I thought, maybe I shouldn't get so discouraged or whatever. For some reason I thought: maybe I'll just throw it all back into an index fund, but with my luck something catastrophic will happen anyway: another pandemic, a global catastrophe, an asteroid hits earth, nukes start detonating in major cities around the world, some AI program starts generating content that precipitates civil unrest, or uprisings, or radicalizes fringe groups, famine, volcanoes, earthquakes.

What is. the next black swan event? What happens next?

I'm so frustrated that everything I seem to try, with everything I seem to try, nothing really seems to work out, or, nothing seems to improve things for me. Well, things in life have improved, but, some real big improvement in my life just hasn't materialized.

...

I'm bored. I don't know what to do, but at the same time, I don't really want to do anything.

...

40 31 86 43 02 07 02 08 49 07 00
06 23 20 23 11 23 04 21 27 27 20
02 69 02 69 02 60 69 00 00 20 69
17 00 30 00 31 01 10 06 02 12 03
01 39 03 41 19 16 08 16 08 00 17
30 03 30 00 10 22 56 50 24 01 33

00 02 59 43 01 07 03 00 02 01 00
00 01 00 02 02 05 06 05 00 02 40
19 33 00 33 21 55 21 22 58 06 22 
23 09 00 04 04 03 96 04 03 90 03
04 03 07 01 02 09 09 03 06 09 06 
31 01 10 07 94 24 01 88 00 10 30 
10 70 30 00 60 80 80 50 00 00 90

56 50 60 40 10 90 40 06 22 11 23
23 00 20 30 01 45 03 22 04 02 14
37 05 40 10 36 29 60 03 03 00 25
13 29 05 29 86 26 31 80 05 33 80
08 18 19 83 07 17 11 54 11 33 08
14 15 26 28 43 57 16 08 07 14 12

...


Sometimes I get lost in my thoughts. mostly about the long series of disappointments and setbacks I've faced during my life. I'm almost ready to try again. or try something new. I don't really know what to try my hand at though.

I don't
really
know
what to 
try
though.
I really don't.

I think of there being three things. three possibilities, some kind of educational pursuit, some kind of technical training, and some kind of second job or side hustle. I'm still really resentful about how things turned out for me at UT Arlington. Really angry. Furious.

...

Today is the first day of the work week. I work nights, so I still have several hours before I have to go in. I read emails, I'm doing laundry right now. is there anything else I can really do?

...

Today is the last day of the weekend.

Looking back at this mini road trip. I really wish I had taken more pictures of Ely, NV. The part of the town that isn't totally brand new has a really distinct look to it.

...

I went on a road trip. A super tiny one, much less ambitious than I had originally planned, but it still felt longer than I wanted, and yet, I also spent so much time on the road that it isn't clear to me why I didn't reach my goal.

My original goal was Las Vegas, NV to Elko, NV to Salt Lake City, UT to Saint George, UT to Las Vegas, NV, but that didn't happen.

Early on in the trip I changed my goal from Elko to West Wendover, NV, figuring it would be a shorter trip between West Wendover to Salt Lake City, and also figuring that I might see the Mormon Crickets in West Wendover anyway.

Didn't happen. I got tired around Ely, NV, and then figured that's enough. I spent maybe 14 hours on the road. So yeah, that's really enough driving for me.

A few days ago I came across old posts from road trips that I had taken in the past, and I realized that so many of them coincided with difficult times in my life, and I kind of wondered if maybe difficult times in my life present themselves because I need to get out of the house or something, and also remembering that I almost went on a road trip the other day out of frustration.

Like, maybe the Universe itself is telling me I can't stay in bed and sleep all day, or play computer games.

I figured I'd go on a road trip without the Universe forcing me to do so.

The other kind of motivating factor was that I saw an overtime sign up. I missed it, obviously, otherwise I wouldn't have gone on a road trip, but it made me somewhat optimistic that I could go on a road trip without the cost of doing so effecting the deadline I'd set for myself to pay off my credit cards.

I recently transferred to a new work location, and I wasn't really expecting overtime to be a thing at this new location.

...

Yeah, so I'm back home now, I did not see any Mormon Crickets. NOT A SINGLE MORMON CRICKET! AT ALL! I'M SO ANGRY! 

#mormoncrickets

...

I'm on my way back home after not seeing a single Mormon Cricket 

#mormoncricket

...

I'm going to see the Mormon Crickets 

#mormoncrickets

...

I kind of want to visit Elko, Nevada to see the Mormon Crickets. 

#mormoncrickets

...
 
I ate 4 hot dogs and a box of ice cream.

...

June 23, 2020 · Shared with Public I ate 4 hot dogs and a box of ice cream.

...

40 31 86 43 02 07 02 08 49 07 00
06 23 20 23 11 23 04 21 27 27 20
02 69 02 69 02 60 69 00 00 20 69
17 00 30 00 31 01 10 06 02 12 03
01 39 03 41 19 16 08 16 08 00 17
30 03 30 00 10 22 56 50 24 01 33

00 02 59 43 01 07 03 00 02 01 00
00 01 00 02 02 05 06 05 00 02 40
19 33 00 33 21 55 21 22 58 06 22 
23 09 00 04 04 03 96 04 03 90 03
04 03 07 01 02 09 09 03 06 09 06 

31 01 10 07 94 24 01 88 00 10 30 
10 70 30 00 60 80 80 50 00 00 90
11 12 25 11 23 25 11 23 04 25 01
12 50 11 00 12 00 05 11 55 22 33

13 29 05 29 86 26 31 80 53 03 03
02 32 20 32 10 03 06 04 42 52 62
65 77 10 01 50 00 01 30 01 16 63
02 05 27 33 37 58 02 03 01 05 15
00 32 01 07 11 06 58 25 74 14 85
02 05 27 33 37 58 65 45 78 98 32
59 01 07 11 06 11 23 04 25 95 25

80 86 20 02 32 23 10 01 41 14 51
01 19 19 00 17 21 05 05 14 11 23

...




...

I went to the buffet yesterday. I got a fortune cookie and I feel like fortune cookies are my, secondary of course, but almost a second primary reason for going to the buffet. I was disappointed with what it said because it didn't feel like it really meant anything to me. it said something like: an optimistic heart clears the path to victory. and I'm not even sure how that's relevant to me.

My work week isn't that long. I work four days a week. nights.

My work
week isn't
that
long.

Sometimes I get lost in my thoughts. mostly about the long series of disappointments and setbacks I've faced during my life. I'm almost ready to try again. or try something new. I don't really know what to try my hand at though.

I don't
really
know
what to 
try
though.
I really don't.

I think of there being three things. three possibilities, some kind of educational pursuit, some kind of technical training, and some kind of second job or side hustle. I'm still really resentful about how things turned out for me at UT Arlington. Really angry. Furious.

...

Today is the first day of the work week. I work nights, so I still have several hours before I have to go in. I read emails, I'm doing laundry right now. is there anything else I can really do?

...

Today is the last day of the weekend.

Looking back at this mini road trip. I really wish I had taken more pictures of Ely, NV. The part of the town that isn't totally brand new has a really distinct look to it.

...

I went on a road trip. A super tiny one, much less ambitious than I had originally planned, but it still felt longer than I wanted, and yet, I also spent so much time on the road that it isn't clear to me why I didn't reach my goal.

My original goal was Las Vegas, NV to Elko, NV to Salt Lake City, UT to Saint George, UT to Las Vegas, NV, but that didn't happen.

Early on in the trip I changed my goal from Elko to West Wendover, NV, figuring it would be a shorter trip between West Wendover to Salt Lake City, and also figuring that I might see the Mormon Crickets in West Wendover anyway.

Didn't happen. I got tired around Ely, NV, and then figured that's enough. I spent maybe 14 hours on the road. So yeah, that's really enough driving for me.

A few days ago I came across old posts from road trips that I had taken in the past, and I realized that so many of them coincided with difficult times in my life, and I kind of wondered if maybe difficult times in my life present themselves because I need to get out of the house or something, and also remembering that I almost went on a road trip the other day out of frustration.

Like, maybe the Universe itself is telling me I can't stay in bed and sleep all day, or play computer games.

I figured I'd go on a road trip without the Universe forcing me to do so.

The other kind of motivating factor was that I saw an overtime sign up. I missed it, obviously, otherwise I wouldn't have gone on a road trip, but it made me somewhat optimistic that I could go on a road trip without the cost of doing so effecting the deadline I'd set for myself to pay off my credit cards.

I recently transferred to a new work location, and I wasn't really expecting overtime to be a thing at this new location.

...

Yeah, so I'm back home now, I did not see any Mormon Crickets. NOT A SINGLE MORMON CRICKET! AT ALL! I'M SO ANGRY! 

#mormoncrickets

...

I'm on my way back home after not seeing a single Mormon Cricket 

#mormoncricket

...

I'm going to see the Mormon Crickets 

#mormoncrickets

...

I kind of want to visit Elko, Nevada to see the Mormon Crickets. 

#mormoncrickets

...
 
I ate 4 hot dogs and a box of ice cream.

...

June 23, 2020 · Shared with Public I ate 4 hot dogs and a box of ice cream.

...

40 31 86 43 02 07 02 08 49 07 00
06 23 20 23 11 23 04 21 27 27 20
02 69 02 69 02 60 69 00 00 20 69
17 00 30 00 31 01 10 06 02 12 03
01 39 03 41 19 16 08 16 08 00 17
30 03 30 00 10 22 56 50 24 01 33

00 02 59 43 01 07 03 00 02 01 00
00 01 00 02 02 05 06 05 00 02 40
19 33 00 33 21 55 21 22 58 06 22 
23 09 00 04 04 03 96 04 03 90 03
04 03 07 01 02 09 09 03 06 09 06 

31 01 10 07 94 24 01 88 00 10 30 
10 70 30 00 60 80 80 50 00 00 90
11 12 25 11 23 25 11 23 04 25 01
12 50 11 00 12 00 05 11 55 22 33

13 29 05 29 86 26 31 80 53 03 03
02 32 20 32 10 03 06 04 42 52 62
65 77 10 01 50 00 01 30 01 16 63
02 05 27 33 37 58 02 03 01 05 15
00 32 01 07 11 06 58 25 74 14 85
02 05 27 33 37 58 65 45 78 98 32
59 01 07 11 06 11 23 04 25 95 25

80 86 20 02 32 23 10 01 41 14 51
01 19 19 00 17 21 05 05 14 11 23

...













...

It's Thursday, almost midnight, and I didn't do a damn thing with my day. I had a weird incident with my Steam gaming account where I had to change my password, which was irritating. but um. i love my new password. it makes my heart melt. haha. I guess I did a few things today, but nothing really material. I went to the grocery store and bought pizza rolls. I thought about going to a buffet, not the same one I go to all the time, the one just down the street, but I thought about going to one somewhere in Las Vegas, somewhere on the strip, or in Chinatown or somewhere, I don't know.

I usually delete emails as soon as I read them, but I was letting my email inbox kind of fill up because there were a few things that I wanted to read in-depth, most of these are newsletters, and some are kind of marketing emails, but I kind of wanted to catch up on things. So many things are distractions, and kind of useless.

Facebook memories. I saw this video of me walking to work back when I was living in Cameron, Missouri. One thing that's funny, not really related to the video or anything, but kind of because I was walking to work and I worked at a hotel, one of the things that is funny is that considering how long I worked at a hotel, that sometimes during my road trips I would try to get a room kind of early in the morning, and check-in is usually sometime later in the early afternoon, and, I would usually try to get a room early in the morning because I would be driving through the night, then I'd be tired in the morning. It's hot during the day, and I really don't like being out during the day doing anything.

Today is now Friday, and I should do something. Something useful. I don't really want to do anything like go out or whatever. I've become less interested in socializing. I've never been really into it anyway.

...

I have the rest of the day off, Thursday, and I have Friday off.

...

I left work a few hours early today. I was having issues with my computer, and after restarting the thing several times and logging in and out, and even switching computers, I realized that the issue was with my credentials or something, and not my computer. It's only ever me. So I went to Dotty's and had a few drinks and some bar food, then I went to the Cannery and had some more food. Then I went home and napped, I got back home at around the time I would have normally gotten home had I not left early.

Going out of town is sort of out of the question, I mean, at least today anyway. I signed up for a half shift for midnight Thursday, and I'm somewhat irritated because I left 2 hours early, and I signed up for a half shift, which if 5 hours, or five and a half, and like, I'm really only getting ahead by 3 hours this week, and at the same time, I'm already behind by 2 hours. Like I'm already behind by 2 hours, and I'm only going to get ahead by 3 hours. Well, 4.5 hours since those are overtime hours.

I have to remember to look into some kind of educational program, technical training, or second job.

...

I don't really want to go anywhere. I can't really think of where to go. and I'm also not really sure what I would do. I'm still focusing on paying down my credit cards, but it wouldn't really break the bank to go somewhere. or do something.

Sometimes when I go out to eat I have this desire or something to eat something real, but sometimes it's clearly something from a bag from the frozen foods section of the grocery store.

...

Well, there were a few things. One is that I got my meningitis vaccine. Fucking expensive. Really fucking expensive. I paid out of pocket. Really fucking expensive. Jesus. I don't really know.

I paid out of pocket. This is from Sanford Street 401. I paid out of pocket because I don't think that I was working at the time. I was going back to college and this was. This was during the few months leading up going to UT Arlington.

...













...

23 02 04 00 01 01 02 03 02 33 40 03 03
04 50 10 01 33 40 01 30 20 59 65 32 20
19 28 00 10 19 70 00 88 70 88 89 32 12

01 19 19 00 17 21 05 05 14 11 23 04 25
31 12 30 43 12 31 03 34 00 05 05 01 10 
10 00 00 01 10 20 21 16 05 20 05 07 08
02 05 02 03 04 05 50 20 30 40 51 12 32
33 15 10 52 99 10 22 15 05 52 74 85 02
11 04 15 63 85 26 35 21 05 10 13 29 62
11 32 02 10 06 27 23 06 44 11 05 41 01

01 19 19 00 17 21 05 05 14 11 23 04 25
42 84 20 02 48 24 08 56 95 48 15 02 30
23 05 12 12 00 00 20 08 05 18 05 00 23 
05 18 05 23 05 12 12 00 00 20 08 05 18 
05 00 23 05 18 05 00 01 00 06 05 23 00 
40 16 04 16 03 65 56 02 32 56 23 21 47

01 19 19 00 17 21 05 05 14 11 23 04 25
20 08 09 14 07 19 11 23 52 12 15 20 32 
23 05 12 12 00 00 20 08 05 18 05 00 23 
05 18 05 00 01 00 06 05 23 00 20 08 09 
14 07 19 86 06 96 52 58 74 85 95 32 58 
75 46 32 15 75 87 48 95 25 63 25 23 54

44 20 11 03 01 19 19 00 17 21 05 05 14
01 19 19 00 17 21 05 05 14 11 23 04 25
04 81 03 06 13 29 05 29 86 26 31 80 53 
32 15 51 12 21 23 30 85 50 02 56 32 15 
10 73 21 06 30 02 20 19 91 20 32 52 12 
71 24 53 30 76 70 77 84 18 91 98 54 32

...






































...

How are you doing Kenneth?

Not well, everything is a catastrophe, I'm basically failing, like usual, and can't really seem to get it together.

Why are you failing, Kenneth? and why is everything a catastrophe?

It's your fault! in fact, I think that from now on, I'm going to think of you as katastrophiena! Anyway, hyperbole aside, I'm legitimately not doing well, things aren't too much of a catastrophe, but they are more or less a total disaster. I'm serious.

I'm amused.

Yeah, well, I don't really know what to do.

Why do you figure it out.

Yeah, that's probably not going to happen. I'm really never going to figure this out.

...

It's lunchtime, and I'm not hungry, and I don't know why. I'm just not hungry.

I missed a sign up for overtime this week, so I have 3 days off, but there is honestly nothing interesting that I can do with that time. My courses start soon, so preparing for that is about as interesting a thing as I can do with my days off.

...

There weren't any breakfast burritos available when I went to the gas station this morning, so I bought a soda and that was it.

...

I'm in the worst mood ever. I feel like garbage.

...

My phone still doesn't really have a good connection at my new work location. This is frustrating because sometimes I want to write or read while I'm in my car. I get almost no connection anywhere in North Las Vegas.

I bought cigarettes. Twice. After telling myself that I want to quit smoking. I don't know what to do. It was lunch, and the gas station is just around the corner. So I bought some.

I continue to struggle with bouts of really intense unhappiness. It comes and goes and I'm not always sure where it comes from. It's usually over things I shouldn't really be bothered by.

...

Well, I bought a pack of cigarettes. I didn't mean to do that, but after this pack of cigarettes, I will definitely stop smoking. Tomorrow, Saturday, is the last day of the pay period, but the first day of the work week, I have the rest of today off, and I don't go in until 6:00 PM tomorrow. I don't know what it is, but even when I drink soy milk I get a stomach reaction similar to when I drink regular milk. Like: "come on stomach, this is just soy milk!"

...

I have to stop smoking, and I want to stop smoking.

...

Sharing or posting pictures on Blogger isn't ideal. The issue has to do with sizing. I need to manually adjust the sizes of pictures I post here to 600 pixels otherwise they overflow out of the margins.

I really want to stop smoking. I can't figure out why I'm so fatigued, sluggish, and tired all the time, other than that I smoke, and that I'd probably be more fit if I wasn't smoking. 

...

It feels like it has been a long week so far. I know that I shouldn't wish my life away, wishing the weeks and days and hours would go by faster, but I'm really stuck for the time being. distractions. diversions. I can't think of anything, and then again, I don't really want to do anything.

...

I want to buy some jeans, but I really have more pants than I need, and I also have enough jeans as it is, I think. So I guess I'll think that one over. I don't know. Some of my pants are too long. The length of my pants usually isn't an issue when I wear boots, but sometimes I wear sneakers, so, sometimes my pants drag across the floor.

...

I feel a little better. It seems that as soon as I wrote down that I was feeling sad, the feeling sort of dissipated. I felt like leaving work early, but, the most intelligent thing to do is finish out my shifts in full this week. I'm amazed by how long this week has felt so far, I still have one more day left of the work week, and, not really because I signed up for over time.

The most intelligent thing I can do is not leave work early.

I've kind of made a breakthrough with paying down my credit cards, it's not a major one, but I'll be able to accomplish, a kind of, full churn of the balances while reducing my total outstanding balances. This isn't a major breakthrough, but it's a breakthrough, and, I think that I should be happy about that. There is this kind of strategy or tactic where, I focus my payments on a specific card, and concentrate my spending on a specific card, and kind of rotate spending and payments during the month.

I have work today, but only about half a shift. I'm somewhat glad. I was really tired.

...

I continue to experience this really intense feeling of unhappiness. I don't know what it is. It hasn't gone away.

...

I can't believe how hot it is.

...

Today is Monday, like Monday-Monday. A real Monday, but for me it's a Wednesday in terms of the workweek, and yet that's not really accurate because I signed up for overtime this week, and I don't exactly have a day off. I signed up for two half-shifts. I kind of had to fight to keep my job today, not exactly but kind of. I'm not exactly sure what I would do if I were on the job market again.

...

some person on reddit laments that the person's country is on fire again, but i can't determine if the person is from france or canada.

...

It feels like there is a hole in my chest, or, like a ball of lead. I'm not really happy and I'm not sure why. There isn't much going on. Everything is kind of boring right now because the major goal. The major focus I have right now is paying down my credit cards.

...

I deleted my Facebook Dating profile like a few hours after setting it up. I didn't really put much into it, so I don't really feel like it's much of a loss.

I don't feel like getting de-monetized, and I've also just filed another appeal, but, I'm just not looking for a relationship and I don't know how else to put it, most of the apps for that type of connection are totally bogus. so, i'm not really going to put any more effort into that.

...

some person on reddit laments that his country is on fire again, but i couldn't determine if the person was from france or canada.

...

I'm feeling unhappy right now, and I don't know what set this off. There's nothing really going on. I signed up for Facebook Dating. Again. But. I'm not really enthusiastic about trying this again for the nine millionth time. Dating is something that I've really just given up on. And the truth is. I'm not looking for a relationship.

...

It's so hot. I can't believe how hot it is. I read that there was a heat wave in Texas, but I looked up the temperature in Dallas, and it's 12 degrees lower, but then again, it's later in the day over there, so I guess that's not an accurate comparison. At 10PM Pacific the temperature will be lower here in Vegas too.

...

when you take 
it all together
and see how
it all adds up and
how none of it
makes sense when
you look at it from
the perspective of
a person who sees
the bigger picture

you'll notice something
that you didn't notice
the last time you took
a look at it and sense that.

and you might not take
what you see seriously
because it doesn't look real
and you can't see the best
of the worst of the very
most interesting and you
can't take it with you
if you see where things go.

maybe you see things
that you aren't sure you
wanted to see or you
find out things that you
did not want to find out. 

but that's sometimes
the way it goes.

maybe you dig
but don't find anything
maybe you search
and you don't find anything
maybe you look
and see nothing

i imagined you called me 
and asked me to coffee
i imagined nothing i'd rather do
than have coffee with you

when i see the future i don't
see anything all that amazing
nothing in the future
nothing that i can see 
about the future seems
all that exciting
well
maybe that's not true maybe
sometimes

sometimes i see things that are
kind of amazing. some of the things
are not amazing.

i haven't fallen asleep and i need
to get some rest
and i've been actively trying to
fall asleep and i haven't been
successful in doing so.
even in this small task i seem
to have failed.

i haven't shaved my head in a while
because the last time i did i ended
up with a lot of nicks and cuts
and subsequently a bunch of scabs
which if i didn't let them heal would
just become new nicks and cuts
so i just didn't shave.

i think sometimes it's a reason
but it's not really a great reason
but it's a reason and
i'm really tired of explaining
every reason for every action
for every reason for every decision

and what i want to ask you is
if you're still as beautiful
as you always will be
because some people never change

i think that i'm missing something
i feel like i'm missing something
i have to be missing something
because i know that i'm missing something,
but what is it? i don't have a clue!

scatter brained where
half of my brain and thoughts 
are here and the other half
are somewhere else
maybe one day i'll have
a whole bunch of cool stuff
and maybe I won't but maybe
there are things that do not make 
sense where the things are

i don't know where the best
of the things are that cause 
my phone
alarm to ring. time
to head to work.
time to wake up
time to get going.
here we are and
we will be there shortly.

staring at the computer
screen and nothing changes
things are the same now
as they were just a few seconds
ago there is no change
there is nothing new to 
discover.

...

I don't really write a lot unless I'm facing challenges in life, but if everything is normal, then there really isn't much to write about. I had breakfast, I had lunch, I had dinner, I did laundry, and so on.

...

I signed up for a technical training program through the educational benefits offered by my employer. I hope this works.

...

Actually, don't worry about it, do whatever you'd like to do.

...

You're setting yourself up for the same problems over and over because you're doing the same things over and over with the expectation of a different outcome.

...

Actually, don't worry about it, do whatever you'd like to do.

...

You're setting yourself up for the same problems over and over because you're doing the same things over and over with the expectation of a different outcome.

...

I think it's this, and I'm trying to be both candid and tactful at the same time, and it's very difficult to be both simultaneously, but hell, I'll try it.

...

Uh, well, I think it's this, and stop me if you disagree or maybe don't stop me because you like hearing me talk, maybe you like the sound of my voice, listen.

...

Let me ask you this because maybe you need a reflective moment for once so here it is: why do you think things fall apart so easily for you?

...

📮5892 Losee RD STE 132 PMB 176, North Las Vegas, NV 89081-6200 📧 info@chestnutandhazel.com ‎‎☎+1-816-724-5293

...














...

06 07 00 02 01 00 07 00 05 08 09 00 06
24 00 07 02 00 03 08 74 01 09 08 08 09
18 20 18 10 01 20 11 88 22 00 00 01 08
10 16 18 35 25 04 01 40 01 08 16 18 35
40 09 91 45 55 51 00 70 07 02 88 68 88 

04 01 00 01 00 31 15 20 18 05 32 15 85
80 08 05 08 58 85 20 02 24 02 24 41 23
07 02 20 40 02 35 25 85 15 87 74 42 36
00 05 67 00 02 00 04 05 02 72 40 27 65
30 02 49 09 84 25 65 25 32 51 14 85 96
04 25 04 02 05 85 95 35 11 22 44 77 84

07 03 02 05 50 56 52 02 10 17 81 28 93
32 15 07 03 20 02 20 23 62 57 67 58 67 
57 77 18 06 86 58 10 85 25 63 86 68 85 
73 72 41 46 22 44 54 22 90 51 25 62 36

08 12 10 10 01 18 06 87 31 52 66 33 22
23 75 83 23 17 12 86 81 18 14 41 32 62
07 17 73 13 00 17 12 51 47 85 25 35 62
08 17 74 80 68 74 36 39 19 26 40 00 44
02 22 60 90 40 88 81 46 28 36 96 65 56
06 71 06 66 64 04 07 10 01 23 32 02 20

80 82 32 86 80 44 38 08 23 28 68 44 30
54 44 14 44 12 32 22 25 85 22 32 54 55
15 15 12 12 32 32 15 95 80 96 74 02 32
 
...





































































I don't feel that great. I haven't felt sad for several days, but it seems to be coming back, and again, I have no idea where this feeling comes from. Unhappy.

...

 
I want to nap but I'm awake. I have work later today, and, I also have something else to do a few hours before work starts.

...

I'm looking at a post from over 2 years ago from the Sanford Street series. I was doing food delivery at the time to make some extra money even though I was making pretty decent money with all the extra overtime I was logging at the book factory. At the time I was delivering food through Uber Eats, I eventually got kicked off Uber Eats and starting delivering using Door Dash, I don't think that I would have switched unless, like in this case, I was forced to.

Uber Easts and Door Dash are very different. Uber Eats doesn't have, or didn't have zones like Door Dash, you could end up anywhere in Dallas - Fort Worth, and the area is huge, the trips tended to be longer in terms of milage as a result, and seemed, in turn, to pay more. I also felt like I got pinged more often for a delivery with Uber Eats than with Door Dash.

With Door Dash I had to select a zone, so I think I would select the zone near the book factory, but, that wasn't a really good zone because the only restaurants in the area were, I think a donut shop and a few fast food places, so I wouldn't really get pinged. Sometimes I would head home, and then select the zone near my home, but I lived in a low-income neighborhood and again, I just wouldn't get pinged very often.

Sometimes I'd sit in my car for 30 minutes before getting an order, then I'd get an order and it would take 30 minutes, and then at the end of the whole thing I'd get two dollars and fifty cents for all of that. The last time I did food delivery I got an order paying one dollar and seventy-five cents. I declined it and quit food delivery for good at that point. I think it was sometime in the last quarter of 2021 that I quit doing food delivery and just started looking for a second job to make extra money. I took a job at a gas station, but I was only there for a month, the position was more physically and mentally draining than I expected it to be. The pay was also substantially less than what was advertised, so I figured it wasn't worth it.

...

Letters from Sanford Street # 281 Posted by Chestnut + Hazel on Mar 8, 2021

I really want to buy some new clothes, new pants, new jackets, and new shirts, but this is definitely a want, and not a need. There is more or less nothing wrong with the clothes I have, and on top of that, I have plenty of new clothes in my closet that I haven't used yet, and there is nothing wrong with those new clothes either, I mean, what I'm wanting is new, new clothes.

Well, I actually did buy 5 new shirts yesterday, so I did buy new, new clothes. What I'm I thinking, though. Well. There weren't any calls for overtime at the book factory. There was one small one, but it filled before I could accept it. What I mean is, I usually take two 12 hours overtime shifts at the book factory, supposing that those don't come up, it means I have to make up that money doing food delivery, and food delivery is a much harder way to make up that money, I want to say that it takes about 20 hours of food delivery to make the same amount as 12 hours of overtime.

There are aspects to both, food delivery doesn't have withholding, but it does have expenses, overtime at the factory does have withholding, but it does not have expenses. Anyway, what I'm trying to get at is this, If I have to make up that money doing food delivery, I really don't want to spend that money. Food delivery money is really hard to earn, which makes it really hard to spend.

...

It's another early morning, and I thought about heading to Salt Lake City again. What's there? I have no idea. There's this thought that I might not be able to do it if I don't do it now. Or, you know, if I don't do it today. I have the technical training, the vocational training courses starting next week, and they go on until November, and there is always the possibility of overtime although I'm in a location where the workload would probably trail increased sales volume by a few weeks or a few months.

...

It's really early in the morning, and the temperature is cool right now, I thought about heading to Salt Lake City, but I'm not sure I'm going to do that.

...

Looking at a few of my Facebook Memories. One is a video of me walking through the grass. In this case I think that I'm walking to work. I didn't buy a car in Missouri until some point in August, and, that was earlier than I wanted to. I wanted to wait until it started snowing again, and for some reason I had to buy a car sooner. The next set of memories were from Texas, from my first few months there in Arlington. Screenshots of my Robinhood account and some other stuff. I closed that account and a bunch of others a while ago because it wasn't really necessary any more, and I didn't feel any need to have more than the ones that I kept.

...


The best of the oranges is
rounder than the best of the
candies that have been made
from the qualities of the
taste of the qualifications of the
grapes and of the best of the 
whatever you have seen when the
people of the oranges of the
people of the mandarins or the
animals of the jungle like the
bananas who are related to
the pineapples.

...

mushrooms become aware of their surroundings
and begin to question
the reasons for why they grow and
begin to think of better ways
to become larger and
more delicious

and avocadoes become aware of
how they are made into
guacamole
and avocadoes become aware
of how they become
avocado toast
and they become aware
of how tomatoes become
pico de gallo 

and the sausages become aware of
how they know what the
hot dogs who are their cousins
of who you are
and why you
still occupy my thoughts
and why i'm still upset

of how the cabbages
in the garden have become
fermented and have
become sauerkraut
and how they have become shredded 
and have become coleslaw
and how they have been
boiled.

...


these are where you
are and you
are here and when 
you went somewhere
else you took everything
I thought you 
were in possession of.

hear the sound
of when
you are
here and when
the sound of how you
spoke and how you 
smell when
you talk about how good
it is and how you
smell when you are
sweaty from activities

that are more 
interesting in the
hotter weather of the
tropical paradise of
the tropical lands
of where the tropical fruits
are grown in great
tropical jungles.

...

there is nothing that
can change the

and there is nothing
that can change
the channel
because the 
remote control is
missing or maybe the
remote control is broken

but i wouldn't know if
the remote control is
lost or if the remote
control is broken
because i have no idea
where the remote control
is because i haven't seen
it for the longest time
in the universe

you are a winner because
you are getting what
you want out of life and
you are getting the
things in the cabinet

including
your remote control

...

think of how the things
that you've seen are now
different from what was
originally there
and now how what is currently

here is different from what was
previously here and what
was originally here and what
could be a new thing and what
can be the next thing that
is here and what there are
everywhere
and what there are when there
are things that you think that
are meant to be seen and what
are things that are meant to 
be discovered

...

07 02 20 22 21 07 13 23 01 53 79 72 23 08 85
25 16 89 25 16 90 25 16 91 37 80 51 37 80 52
37 80 65 37 80 66 76 47 10 76 47 11 70 47 12

...












































































...

I don't feel that great. I haven't felt sad for several days, but it seems to be coming back, and again, I have no idea where this feeling comes from. Unhappy.

...

 
I want to nap but I'm awake. I have work later today, and, I also have something else to do a few hours before work starts.

...

I'm looking at a post from over 2 years ago from the Sanford Street series. I was doing food delivery at the time to make some extra money even though I was making pretty decent money with all the extra overtime I was logging at the book factory. At the time I was delivering food through Uber Eats, I eventually got kicked off Uber Eats and starting delivering using Door Dash, I don't think that I would have switched unless, like in this case, I was forced to.

Uber Easts and Door Dash are very different. Uber Eats doesn't have, or didn't have zones like Door Dash, you could end up anywhere in Dallas - Fort Worth, and the area is huge, the trips tended to be longer in terms of milage as a result, and seemed, in turn, to pay more. I also felt like I got pinged more often for a delivery with Uber Eats than with Door Dash.

With Door Dash I had to select a zone, so I think I would select the zone near the book factory, but, that wasn't a really good zone because the only restaurants in the area were, I think a donut shop and a few fast food places, so I wouldn't really get pinged. Sometimes I would head home, and then select the zone near my home, but I lived in a low-income neighborhood and again, I just wouldn't get pinged very often.

Sometimes I'd sit in my car for 30 minutes before getting an order, then I'd get an order and it would take 30 minutes, and then at the end of the whole thing I'd get two dollars and fifty cents for all of that. The last time I did food delivery I got an order paying one dollar and seventy-five cents. I declined it and quit food delivery for good at that point. I think it was sometime in the last quarter of 2021 that I quit doing food delivery and just started looking for a second job to make extra money. I took a job at a gas station, but I was only there for a month, the position was more physically and mentally draining than I expected it to be. The pay was also substantially less than what was advertised, so I figured it wasn't worth it.

...

Letters from Sanford Street # 281 Posted by Chestnut + Hazel on Mar 8, 2021

I really want to buy some new clothes, new pants, new jackets, and new shirts, but this is definitely a want, and not a need. There is more or less nothing wrong with the clothes I have, and on top of that, I have plenty of new clothes in my closet that I haven't used yet, and there is nothing wrong with those new clothes either, I mean, what I'm wanting is new, new clothes.

Well, I actually did buy 5 new shirts yesterday, so I did buy new, new clothes. What I'm I thinking, though. Well. There weren't any calls for overtime at the book factory. There was one small one, but it filled before I could accept it. What I mean is, I usually take two 12 hours overtime shifts at the book factory, supposing that those don't come up, it means I have to make up that money doing food delivery, and food delivery is a much harder way to make up that money, I want to say that it takes about 20 hours of food delivery to make the same amount as 12 hours of overtime.

There are aspects to both, food delivery doesn't have withholding, but it does have expenses, overtime at the factory does have withholding, but it does not have expenses. Anyway, what I'm trying to get at is this, If I have to make up that money doing food delivery, I really don't want to spend that money. Food delivery money is really hard to earn, which makes it really hard to spend.

...

It's another early morning, and I thought about heading to Salt Lake City again. What's there? I have no idea. There's this thought that I might not be able to do it if I don't do it now. Or, you know, if I don't do it today. I have the technical training, the vocational training courses starting next week, and they go on until November, and there is always the possibility of overtime although I'm in a location where the workload would probably trail increased sales volume by a few weeks or a few months.

...

It's really early in the morning, and the temperature is cool right now, I thought about heading to Salt Lake City, but I'm not sure I'm going to do that.

...

Looking at a few of my Facebook Memories. One is a video of me walking through the grass. In this case I think that I'm walking to work. I didn't buy a car in Missouri until some point in August, and, that was earlier than I wanted to. I wanted to wait until it started snowing again, and for some reason I had to buy a car sooner. The next set of memories were from Texas, from my first few months there in Arlington. Screenshots of my Robinhood account and some other stuff. I closed that account and a bunch of others a while ago because it wasn't really necessary any more, and I didn't feel any need to have more than the ones that I kept.

...


The best of the oranges is
rounder than the best of the
candies that have been made
from the qualities of the
taste of the qualifications of the
grapes and of the best of the 
whatever you have seen when the
people of the oranges of the
people of the mandarins or the
animals of the jungle like the
bananas who are related to
the pineapples.

...

mushrooms become aware of their surroundings
and begin to question
the reasons for why they grow and
begin to think of better ways
to become larger and
more delicious

and avocadoes become aware of
how they are made into
guacamole
and avocadoes become aware
of how they become
avocado toast
and they become aware
of how tomatoes become
pico de gallo 

and the sausages become aware of
how they know what the
hot dogs who are their cousins
of who you are
and why you
still occupy my thoughts
and why i'm still upset

of how the cabbages
in the garden have become
fermented and have
become sauerkraut
and how they have become shredded 
and have become coleslaw
and how they have been
boiled.

...


these are where you
are and you
are here and when 
you went somewhere
else you took everything
I thought you 
were in possession of.

hear the sound
of when
you are
here and when
the sound of how you
spoke and how you 
smell when
you talk about how good
it is and how you
smell when you are
sweaty from activities

that are more 
interesting in the
hotter weather of the
tropical paradise of
the tropical lands
of where the tropical fruits
are grown in great
tropical jungles.

...

there is nothing that
can change the

and there is nothing
that can change
the channel
because the 
remote control is
missing or maybe the
remote control is broken

but i wouldn't know if
the remote control is
lost or if the remote
control is broken
because i have no idea
where the remote control
is because i haven't seen
it for the longest time
in the universe

you are a winner because
you are getting what
you want out of life and
you are getting the
things in the cabinet

including
your remote control

...

think of how the things
that you've seen are now
different from what was
originally there
and now how what is currently

here is different from what was
previously here and what
was originally here and what
could be a new thing and what
can be the next thing that
is here and what there are
everywhere
and what there are when there
are things that you think that
are meant to be seen and what
are things that are meant to 
be discovered

...

07 02 20 22 21 07 13 23 01 53 79 72 23 08 85
25 16 89 25 16 90 25 16 91 37 80 51 37 80 52
37 80 65 37 80 66 76 47 10 76 47 11 70 47 12

...










































































My class starts tomorrow. There are still a few things that I need to set up, or check in with. I think that I've done most of that, but I think I should go over it again. 

...


...

My class starts tomorrow. There are still a few things that I need to set up, or check in with. I think that I've done most of that, but I think I should go over it again. 

...

















One of the pairs of jeans that I bought is just plain white. They were already dirty by the time I got home and put them on, but they are very comfortable for some reason. I think that dyes can change how cotton fabrics feel, I'm not sure if there is a difference when it comes to synthetic fabrics.

Yeah, these jeans are really comfortable. I'm really surprised with how comfortable they are.

...

I bought two pairs of jeans, two pairs of pants. three shirts, two of which have shirt pockets, and two pairs of shoes.

...

I bought a shirt. It's kind of small. well. Actually. It is small, but it's smaller than I thought it would be.

...

Kenneth. write this down. Forget about salt lake city temporarily. Stay local for now. do some in-person shopping to get out and explore.

...

Sometimes I experience extreme mental fog.

...



Sometimes I experience extreme mental fog.



...

How do you like your new credit card?

I didn't get it yet. It hasn't arrived yet. It's one of the nicer Citibank cards, and I've been wanting a nicer Citibank card for a while. I had a secured card there for, like 4 years I think, and, I'm looking forward to getting my security deposit back, it wasn't a big deposit or anything, I'm kind of annoyed, though, because even 4 years ago I thought I was past the whole security deposit crap. I put you down as a reference.

I saw that.

The Fidelity one would have been more ideal. I think, but it was just bad timing, I think I applied for the Fidelity one some time last month, early June, and didn't get approved, I was going to wait until July 31st, but, for some reason I didn't and I think that if I had waited until July 31st I would have been approved. My score jumped in kind of a noticeable way, but, I think that it had more to do with timing than any reduction in balances, the timing of my payments and the statement issue dates seems to have worked out in my favor.

...

The idea. the thought that I might be spending too much money is kind of on my mind, and then again, I also don't want to fall into miser mode and save all kinds of money, only to spend all kinds of money in one go in some kind of manic episode, or, lose a whole bunch of money buying coins or shares or whatever only to sell those things at a loss later.

and then again. when I really think about it. I don't really think that I spent too much money. Most of what I spent the other day was on clothes, and I haven't bought new clothes since last year. I didn't really need new clothes, really, but, I don't know, I realize that I kind of need to look presentable when I'm going out and doing things.

...

I spent too much damn money yesterday. Some of that stuff was for things that I was planning on buying anyway, like clothes and stuff. Well, I've been debating about it for a while, and I guess yesterday I made up my mind. The other stuff I spent money on yesterday, though, was actually unnecessary. I don't know why I did it, I guess I just felt like getting out.

...

This is a self-guided experience and it's at your discretion what pace you take through the exhibit. I did the entire thing twice: once to take pictures, and a second time to read all the placards to contextualize whatever I happened to be looking at. This place has a surprisingly eerie feeling considering it isn't deliberately designed to feel macabre. I'm going to see Christopher Nolan's new movie Oppenheimer later today, and I thought that this would be a suitable activity to accompany seeing the movie.

...

07 20 01 05 08 35 25 32 85 25 66 32 52 14
13 29 05 29 86 26 31 80 53 43 74 03 07 87 
67 14 35 26 36 25 45 39 23 43 45 85 25 65

...

shoes are 
the answer
to having
bare feet

if your feet
are uncovered
you have a problem

and that problem is called
bare feet
and

the solution to
that problem
is called shoes

...

Get what you want
when
you see what
you 

just get it

do you get it?
get it!
go out and get it
do you get it?

...









...

there are
those things
that are easy
to understand

and

there are 
those tings
that are
incomprehensible

yesterday when I was at
an intersection I saw a light
and the light was red
so I stopped my card
the message was easy to comprehend

and yet

the driver behind me
seemed to shake his head
in frustration
and I could not figure out why
the light was red

I had to stop
and
since he was behind me
he had to stop as well

so

why the
irritation on 
his part
I couldn't understand it

...











...

<html>
<body>
    <body style="background-image: url('https://static.independent.co.uk/s3fs-public/thumbnails/image/2011/02/06/17/550127.jpg?quality=75&width=1990&crop=4%3A3%2Csmart&auto=webp');">
    <title>The Best Haircut</title>
    <h3>Hello Earth! Moon! Mars! & Venus!</h3>
    <p>What I thought was a haircut turned out</p> 
    <p>not to be a haircut. it was. actually. </p>
    <p>just. hair. </p>
    <p>hiding behind the neck.</p>
    <p>hair hides behind the neck </p>
    <p>and plays </p>
    <p>hide and seek. </p>
    <p>or maybe </p>
    <p>MARCO ! POLO ! </p>
    <p>no hair is the same as hairless  </p>
    <p>no hare is a tortoise. </p>
    <p>FASTER! slower. FASTER! FASTER! FASTER!</p>
   <p>Harder? like the shell of a tortoise?</p>

    <p>NO! just FASTER!</p>
    <h1>My home </h1>
    <p>is on Audrey Hepburn Street! </p>
    <p>where else could I possibly live?</p>
    <h2>Things I like about my home</h2>
    <p>foremost among those things I like about my home</p>
    <p>is that Audrey Hepburn is always here</p>
    <p>and in the neighborhood I like that we have</p>
    <ul> <li>places Audrey Hepburn likes to eat</li><li>places Audrey Hepburn likes to go</li><li>places Audrey Hepburn likes to see</li></ul>

    <body style="background-color:#f5f5dc">
    
</body>
</html>

...

...

Additional cracks continue to appear on the screen of my phone.

...

Once one crack appears on the screen, more follow. I've only had this phone for 2 months, and now the countdown begins for when I have to replace it. If I could somehow hold out a year this wouldn't bother me so much, if at all, but, I just bought this damn phone. A few cracks in the corner, now all across the screen.

...

My phone screen just cracked. I just bought this damn thing.

Looking at my old posts. I bought this phone in early May. So I've only had this phone for 2 months. I don't really want to switch carriers and I don't really want a new number.

...

Kenneth, I want your trademark -ginity!

I really don't know who else I would give that to.

...

This felt like a long weekend, and that's a good thing. it a good thing for the weekend, for my days off to feel longer than shorter. I've been increasing my caffeine consumption, which is actually so. I've actually been trying to cut down on caffeine consumption.

...

I feeling almost sad right now. I'm not there, in the sad zone, but it feels like the sadness is about to hit. Like I'm about to be slammed in the chest with a blast of emptiness. I've felt better lately, whatever this feeling is, whatever causes it, seems to be abating, or something, but it still almost gets there.

...

I think that I wrote this poem back in 2017 for a creative writing class. I saw that it had several views. I'm not really sure how much I like it. I think that at the time, and for years before as well, my goal was just to pump out as many poems as I could in any given day, and this is kind of a product of  that.

Drinking Whiskey Is Like Kissing A Woman

After all the bars I've gone to, and all
the drinks I've had, I can say that drinking
whiskey is like kissing a woman. Fall
into a shot of whiskey while thinking

about a woman who you'd love to kiss
and you'll find it a more than adequate
substitute for bringing your tongue to bliss.
Not very many people would equate

A shot of whiskey to a kiss because
they have never tried it: I recommend
that they do. Longing for a kiss can cause
mental distress that's very hard to mend:

It's been written about in all kinds of
insane lunatic poems about love.

...


                  <a href="mailto:info@chestnutandhazel.com" target="blank"><p>info@chestnutandhazel.com</p></a>

                  <a href="mailto:info@chestnutandhazel.com" target="blank"><p><button >Contact</button></p></a>  


...


info@chestnutandhazel.com

Contact



...








...

Additional cracks continue to appear on the screen of my phone.

...

Once one crack appears on the screen, more follow. I've only had this phone for 2 months, and now the countdown begins for when I have to replace it. If I could somehow hold out a year this wouldn't bother me so much, if at all, but, I just bought this damn phone. A few cracks in the corner, now all across the screen.

...

My phone screen just cracked. I just bought this damn thing.

Looking at my old posts. I bought this phone in early May. So I've only had this phone for 2 months. I don't really want to switch carriers and I don't really want a new number.

...

Kenneth, I want your trademark -ginity!

I really don't know who else I would give that to.

...

This felt like a long weekend, and that's a good thing. it a good thing for the weekend, for my days off to feel longer than shorter. I've been increasing my caffeine consumption, which is actually so. I've actually been trying to cut down on caffeine consumption.

...

I feeling almost sad right now. I'm not there, in the sad zone, but it feels like the sadness is about to hit. Like I'm about to be slammed in the chest with a blast of emptiness. I've felt better lately, whatever this feeling is, whatever causes it, seems to be abating, or something, but it still almost gets there.

...

I think that I wrote this poem back in 2017 for a creative writing class. I saw that it had several views. I'm not really sure how much I like it. I think that at the time, and for years before as well, my goal was just to pump out as many poems as I could in any given day, and this is kind of a product of  that.

Drinking Whiskey Is Like Kissing A Woman

After all the bars I've gone to, and all
the drinks I've had, I can say that drinking
whiskey is like kissing a woman. Fall
into a shot of whiskey while thinking

about a woman who you'd love to kiss
and you'll find it a more than adequate
substitute for bringing your tongue to bliss.
Not very many people would equate

A shot of whiskey to a kiss because
they have never tried it: I recommend
that they do. Longing for a kiss can cause
mental distress that's very hard to mend:

It's been written about in all kinds of
insane lunatic poems about love.

...


                  <a href="mailto:info@chestnutandhazel.com" target="blank"><p>info@chestnutandhazel.com</p></a>

                  <a href="mailto:info@chestnutandhazel.com" target="blank"><p><button >Contact</button></p></a>  


...


info@chestnutandhazel.com

Contact



...









...

I am. In. Salt Lake City. Hehehe. Stupid. I don't know where to go. From here.

...

My phone is almost completely cracked, and, I'm probably going to need a new phone soon. Another issue is that I was written up at work for productivity, and this is kind of a headache. In the worst case scenario I'm out of a job in 2 - 3 weeks, so I have to prepare a contingency for that, and, you know, this is a little bit of a nightmare. I do what I can to stay employed, but, sometimes it seems the harder I try, the harder I have to try, and it feels like this is one of those time where Destiny & Fate are clearly trying to push me in a new direction, but not as hard as they sometimes do. When I left Las Vegas 5 years ago, and when I left Missouri 3 years ago, and when I left Texas 1 year ago, like each time it was just. It just really seemed that there was no way to triumph over whatever challenges I had been facing.

When I think about heading to Salt Lake City I'm in two minds about the idea. If I'm a few weeks away from being unemployed, then maybe doing a road trip isn't the best idea, and on the other hand, maybe I should go on a road trip because if I don't do it now, I might not get a chance to do a road trip for a while. Like, if I get canned, it will be maybe another year before I'm in a position to really do anything.

...





























It was funny because, when I saw him months later at a new company, I asked him what this issue was, why, you know he was at a new company and all that. For me, I was looking for a second job, but I already had a second job, and I think, most employers aren't too open to any given employee having two job and all that, at least, not for very long anyway. Anyway, about the old friend, I asked him what the issue was, and he said he said something, and I said to him, you know, it's funny that you should say that, because, I happened to be thinking the exact same thing.

Something like. I remember ordering something like 2 large appetizers, they were large enough for 2 people, and, for some reason the waitress asks if I want an entrée anyway. So I ordered one, but I was already really stuffed. I ate everything, but I really was super stuffed. I didn't know what to do. I was stuffed, like a turkey. I'm on thing ice right now. 2 write ups, and now I'm on suspension. I'm afraid about the potential for tough times ahead. I'm afraid about the future. I want to be at a point where I can say: everything turned out for the best.

There were times when things really did get better, and when it seemed like I was on the right path. sometimes it feels like a good future is so far away, and so far out of reach. and something that will just never happen. and something that will just never materialize. and something that is just for people who have connections, and something that is just for people who have all the right social skills. and sometimes I think that maybe I should make more friends. I made one friend, and we exchanged contact information. Sometimes friendships go stale by the time I need a letter of recommendation. sometimes connections drop by the time I need a letter of recommendation. 

Coincidences skill seem to pop up from time to time, and sometimes I'm not really sure what to make of them. Sometimes there is this thing or that thing and some connection between the two, and I don't really even want to go into details, I really don't even want to get into the specifics of this or that thing. I just don't. I really don't. When she says that coincidence makes sense only with you, what I wonder is does she mean the coincidence seems to make sense only when someone, whoever she is talking to, explains the coincidence as more than a coincidence, or does she mean, that the person who she is talking to is able to accept a coincidence as a coincidence without thinking more of it. two thirty two. ninety six. four four three. I'm probably just seeing things.

...

I'm really not feeling okay. I'm not feeling okay at all. Things are not going well. I was kind of making a little bit of progress not too long ago, but now, I think I'll be facing kind of a set back. Nightmare. over and over. I'm not happy. I'm unhappy. Everything is kind of a disaster. Everything is kind of a nightmare. The clock is officially ticking, and I have no idea what on earth to do. I feel like pure garbage.

...

I left work early. again. and again it wasn't really a good idea. not the end of the world. but not a good idea. I'm just not really feeling happy. I feel like pure garbage. I'm just in a persistent unhappy mood. With all the time I've missed I might as well have gone on another road trip. When I looked at my time card I didn't realize that I left so early. I thought I worked 2 hours at least, but, it was really only an hour an a half. I drink so many energy drinks every day. I don't know why I'm in such a bad mood all the time. I'm either angry, or depressed. over and over in circles.

Feeling lost. I have no idea what to do. I kind of want to go back to college. One of the few things that I enjoy is the Software and Web Development course that I'm taking, it's expensive, and I don't really think I'd be doing this unless it was an employer paid benefit, but I think I kind of want to check out what's offered at one of the community or junior colleges in Las Vegas.

So even if I'm somehow able to work through all my remaining shifts for the week, it will only put me at about 31 or 32 hours worked for the week. Huge mistake to cut out of work, but, sometimes my brain, my mood, just has to get away. I couldn't concentrate during class, and I'm having trouble concentrating now.

...

I'm really not feeling okay. I'm not feeling okay at all. Things are not going well. I was kind of making a little bit of progress not too long ago, but now, I think I'll be facing kind of a set back. Nightmare. over and over. I'm not happy. I'm unhappy. Everything is kind of a disaster. Everything is kind of a nightmare. The clock is officially ticking, and I have no idea what on earth to do. I feel like pure garbage.

...

I left work early. again. and again it wasn't really a good idea. not the end of the world. but not a good idea. I'm just not really feeling happy. I feel like pure garbage. I'm just in a persistent unhappy mood. With all the time I've missed I might as well have gone on another road trip. When I looked at my time card I didn't realize that I left so early. I thought I worked 2 hours at least, but, it was really only an hour an a half. I drink so many energy drinks every day. I don't know why I'm in such a bad mood all the time. I'm either angry, or depressed. over and over in circles.

Feeling lost. I have no idea what to do. I kind of want to go back to college. One of the few things that I enjoy is the Software and Web Development course that I'm taking, it's expensive, and I don't really think I'd be doing this unless it was an employer paid benefit, but I think I kind of want to check out what's offered at one of the community or junior colleges in Las Vegas.

So even if I'm somehow able to work through all my remaining shifts for the week, it will only put me at about 31 or 32 hours worked for the week. Huge mistake to cut out of work, but, sometimes my brain, my mood, just has to get away. I couldn't concentrate during class, and I'm having trouble concentrating now.

...

I left work early. That was a stupid decision, but, I'm in a really bad mood. I'm just in such a lousy mood. I went on a block rampage. I'm in such a bad mood. Really bad mood. I'm resentful about so many things. I'm unhappy, and angry, and frustrated, and irritated, and resentful. I don't know what to do about these feelings, or what's causing them. I think that I've been able to get The Complete Letters from Sanford Street to be compliant with the community standards. It took a while. A long while.

...

Chestnut and Hazel now has a LinkedIn page. Yeah. I didn't really do much with the Chestnut and Hazel Facebook page. I don't know how much other stuff I should set up for it. This is a lot of. stuff. I really. I'm really wanted to start to make something of Chestnut + Hazel, and I want it to be more than just a blog. I want to keep the blog, of course, but I want to make Chestnut & Hazel into something. I have a few ideas, but I'm really just not there yet.

The main idea I've come up with is a kind of travel guide. Or a road guide or something.

I'm experiencing real dread for the workday ahead. I can't believe that I'm already at a second write up in less than a month. On the one hand I've honestly been working here, at the same company, for longer than I've really work at any company, and, I'm honestly kind of interested in maybe doing something else but I'm just not really sure what that something else would be at this point.

I don't want to be in a desperate position in the event that I'm on the job market again. This is a nightmare. A real nightmare, and I'm really not ready to start looking again. 

When I think about the things I could possibly do, one of the things is working on chestnut + hazel more seriously, but like, there's still the very real issue of paying whatever living expenses I have to deal with. I really don't know what to do, and I don't know what I would do. I'm really dreading the moment where I hit GAME OVER. Real dread. I don't know what to do, or what to look for or how to approach things. The one thing is that, last time. The last few times I've applied for work, I didn't really have a hard time finding something.

I left work early. That was a stupid decision, but, I'm in a really bad mood. I'm just in such a lousy mood. I went on a block rampage. I'm in such a bad mood. Really bad mood. I'm resentful about so many things. I'm unhappy, and angry, and frustrated, and irritated, and resentful. I don't know what to do about these feelings, or what's causing them. I think that I've been able to get The Complete Letters from Sanford Street to be compliant with the community standards. It took a while. A long while.

...

Chestnut and Hazel now has a LinkedIn page. Yeah. I didn't really do much with the Chestnut and Hazel Facebook page. I don't know how much other stuff I should set up for it. This is a lot of. stuff. I really. I'm really wanted to start to make something of Chestnut + Hazel, and I want it to be more than just a blog. I want to keep the blog, of course, but I want to make Chestnut & Hazel into something. I have a few ideas, but I'm really just not there yet.

The main idea I've come up with is a kind of travel guide. Or a road guide or something.

I'm experiencing real dread for the workday ahead. I can't believe that I'm already at a second write up in less than a month. On the one hand I've honestly been working here, at the same company, for longer than I've really work at any company, and, I'm honestly kind of interested in maybe doing something else but I'm just not really sure what that something else would be at this point.

I don't want to be in a desperate position in the event that I'm on the job market again. This is a nightmare. A real nightmare, and I'm really not ready to start looking again. 

When I think about the things I could possibly do, one of the things is working on chestnut + hazel more seriously, but like, there's still the very real issue of paying whatever living expenses I have to deal with. I really don't know what to do, and I don't know what I would do. I'm really dreading the moment where I hit GAME OVER. Real dread. I don't know what to do, or what to look for or how to approach things. The one thing is that, last time. The last few times I've applied for work, I didn't really have a hard time finding something.

Good lord. I got written up again. Write up number 2. I think that it was last Monday I was written up, then, I worked just a few hours on. Okay, so it was last Sunday that I was written up, I worked just a few hours on Monday, and then took off to Salt Lake City. Jeeze, I didn't even know I could get written up on the basis of four hours of under-performance.

...

Fourteen hours. That's how much time I put in this week. So today will put me at twenty-four. I had no idea I missed that much work. I feel a little bit like garbage. I need to think. I have to watch out as far as missing work goes. I have enough unpaid time available to use, but of course, not enough money.

...

Getting rid of accumulated junk. This and that. When I went on my road trip to Salt Lake City, I had some recyclables that I wanted to recycle, but, at some point I said: "forget about it" and threw it in the trash. Editing this massive Sanford Street post is taking a while. I'm doing it little by little, removing anything that might be offensive. I'm still not sure how any of this can be an issue, since it's all text, and I don't really linger on any particular topic for a huge percentage of any given post, so, I really don't know how this all got flagged.

Right now I don't even want to go into work. Maybe my mood will change, who knows. I have a few hours, and I should nap a little more.

Something just slipped my mind. I was just thinking about something, and whatever it was, it just slipped my mind. whatever it was. I think that I remember now. What I wanted to say is that I want to get back in to going to the movies on a regular basis, or seeing movies or whatever. I haven't seen any in a long time, and, yeah, I don't know. I don't know where to start. I did get a chance to see Oppenheimer, and that was basically it. I haven't really thought to keep up with what is going to be released and all of that.

...

Today is Saturday, and I have work later tonight. Class is over and I'm going to take a nap. I had a long weekend, especially considering that I took 2 days off, in retrospect that was somewhat silly, I could have done that later in the week, but, at the same time I was just really in a garbage mood, and I don't know, I really had to get out or something, or break away. This coming week is going to be kind of long.

...

The work week starts in just 2 hours. I have class, and then work later on in the day. I have to continue cleaning up the Complete Letters from Sanford Street, I figure that most of what I'm doing is cutting things out, and removing things, or whatever, that seems inappropriate, so, that's basically it.

...

A Series of 24 Logos for Chestnut + Hazel

...

A Series of 24 Logos for Chestnut + Hazel

These are a few of the logos I've come up with.

...

Introduction

These are notes taken while living in Arlington, Texas on Sanford Street. I lived on Sanford Street from June 2020 to October 2022. This is currently in the process of being edited. These posts are a mix or journal entries, reflections and introspections, thoughts, stream of consciousness writings, and just a general mix of thoughts, worries, and plans for the future.

...

1

This is kind of annoying. I haven't 
really messed around with paper and ink
in such a long time: here I am, having
a total blast! This process really stinks:

First, write it up, then type, then print or post,
just another piece of shit thing to do
with time I have to flush down the toilet.
Quicker to snap, then upload to the host,
and then somehow this makes its way to you,
reading on your phone as you take a shit.

This is just another time in my life
where this is the only task for me to
pursue, and, filled with turmoil and strife
I tattoo these sheets of paper in blue.

Actually Writing Again
and it really isn't what I was hoping for it to be.
it is boring and I do not like it.

...

2

I went to jack in the box to get tacos again. this is something that i may have to do for a while. i need to keep my expenses low. i really do. nightmare. pain. i have to stop eating out at restaurants for the time being. i really want to sell or liquidate as much of my stuff as i can, but i'm not sure i will get around to it. what i think would be kind of a loss is throwing it away or giving it away like i did when i left Missouri. what i mean is. waiting to get rid of all my extra stuff until the absolute last minute, and not have the chance to recoup any money from it.

...

3

I go into work in just a few minutes. About the writing project. I have 2 ideas. Well. 3 maybe. 1 is a series of funny hypothetical experiences. 2 is a series of funny prospectus caricatures. 3 is a series just slice of life poems.

I've reviewed some of my old poems. And ive already done idea 3. It's probably the thing i write about most often. And most of the poems that i discarded and dont have any more. And couldnt track down were on that topic. Or of that style.

...

4

Somber music played by guys at the pool,
I'm listening from my sweltering room,
as the sun beats down, the water is cool,
I'd join them to alleviate my gloom.

I have this totally ridiculous 
thought that if I can't really sleep right now
then perhaps I should try to finish this
series of epic sonnets on the Dow

the Standard and Poor's, the Russell, and the 
Wilshire. Dumb old index crap, I'd like to
do something more sophisticated, a
person like me, though, consistently blue

in mood, testicles, temperament, and chips,
writing these sad songs with my hands and lips.

there are people
all around you and they say things
that you shouldn't hear.

Somber music played by guys at the pool,
I'm listening from my sweltering room,
as the sun beats down, the water is cool,
I should join and alleviate my gloom.

I have this totally ridiculous 
thought that if I can't really sleep right now
then perhaps I should try to finish this
series of epic sonnets on the Dow

the Standard and Poor's, the Russell, and the 
Wilshire. Dumb old index crap, I'd like to
do something more sophisticated, a
person like me, though, consistently blue

in mood, testicles, temperament, and chips,
writing these sad songs with my hands and lips.

...

5

I was thinking about this poem I wrote a while back. Maybe a few years ago. I was going through my Spam folder and I came across some Spam messages that I thought were funny. I have to go through the hella-zillions of posts that I put on this god dammed blog. Figure out what poems I like, and then submit them.

I don't think that I'll keep any poems unpublished for the time being. I think that i'll just post them as soon as I write them. There is no incentive for me to keep them unpublished unless there is some kind of. I don't even know.

I was going to complete some unemployment paperwork to collect payment on the few weeks that I wasn't working. But I'm not sure I will. I archived the letter they sent, and I'm just going to forget about it. This is somewhat horseshit. I don't know. I really don't know what I'm going to do about that.

Just totally irritated about it.

Asian beauties, Russian Beauties, and pills
to enlarge your penis, a lottery
check is waiting for you, and unpaid bills,
and deals on ancient Chinese pottery.

A handful of rice and a slice of spam
and a sheet of nori: wrap it around
and you have spam musubi, then you cram
it into your throat and swallow it down.

Spam is something that en masse you delete
because everything caught by the filter
is useless. Spam is something that you eat
unless your stomach feels out of kilter.

Spam is a nuisance, and also a food
one is deleted, the other is stewed.

and here
you are again
with your best friends eating

all the best
bacon and all the best
meats.

I was thinking about this poem I wrote a while back. 
Maybe a few years ago. I was going through my Spam folder and 
I came across some Spam messages that I thought were funny. I have 
to go through the jillions of posts that I put on this god dammed 
blog. Figure out what poems I like, and then submit them.
I don't think that I'll keep any poems unpublished 
for the time being. I think that i'll just post them as soon as I write them. 

There is no incentive for me to keep them unpublished unless there is 
some kind of. I don't even know.

I was going to complete some unemployment paperwork 
to collect payment on the few weeks that I wasn't working. But I'm not 
sure I will. I archived the letter they sent, and I'm just going to forget 
about it. This is somewhat horseshit. I don't know. I really don't 
know what I'm going to do about that.

Just totally irritated about it.

Asian beauties, Russian Beauties, and pills
to enlarge your penis, a lottery

sometimes there are empty bottles cracked

and they eat for the 

turkeys of the

nest
check is waiting for you, 
and unpaid bills,
and deals on ancient Chinese pottery.

four of the greatest people on earth

are the best of the wisest people who are not here

A handful of rice and a slice of spam
and a sheet of nori: wrap it around
and you have spam musubi, then you cram
it into your throat and swallow it down.

then you see where the people are and how they
do what they want to do.

Spam is something that en masse you delete
because everything caught by the filter
is useless. Spam is something that you eat
unless your stomach feels out of kilter.

Spam is a nuisance, and also a food
one is deleted, the other is stewed.

but wait until your brain is 
larger than it was before and take care of how
things go for you.

...

6

I don't know if blogging and writing is a waste of time, or if it's just not very remunerative. Or if it's just that it hasn't been remunerative so far. In other words. I don't really get paid for this, and I really don't make any money doing it. Should I do it? Should anyone do anything that doesn't pay? I want to say that writing is a waste of time for me, but this is based on the premise that all time spent must be converted into money, and that the conversion of time into money is the be all and end all of how time is utilized.

...

7

I'm trying to get organized. I'm getting there. I am getting organized. It's a slow process, especially after the kind of mess that I've gotten myself into. Sticky fucking situations. How long will it take to clean things up and get things back in order? I don't know. It could take a whole fucking year. Who knows?

Ekphrastics: Paper Wings

A white bed sheet sprawled across a sofa,
the scent of body odor and sweat hangs
in the air, a person in a coma
once laid here, this is the place where he bangs

a multitude of women, the moist sheets
contain messages written in semen
he does it once, twice, three times, then repeats
the ritual again like a demon.

How on earth does he get loads of women
to go along banging with him, it's a
mystery, he smells just like a lemon
that's why women give him the time of day.

If I had mysterious skills like him
I'd bang a million women on a whim.

...

8

but it was inappropriate for the time,
and it was not to be changed for the time
that it was there and it was
not to be changed for the majority.

Ekphrastics: Vacation Apocalypse

A jet plane on its way to Australia
carries passengers of every color,
race, and creed. Along the plains Thalia
inspires the shepherds to write another

poem about goats and sheep, that they do.
Little do they know that the planes above
spew great clouds of carbon dioxide through
the atmosphere and a multitude of

other gasses that cause global warming.
One area suffers from massive floods,
another suffers a drought, bugs swarming
fields eating everything they can. Blue bloods

and titans of industry hardly care
about all the pollution in the air.

You will probably not believe this shit
but I'm totally feeding my flowers
vitamin and caffeine pills chopped to bits
mixed with liquids and raining like showers

from a two liter plastic bottle on
the chopped up pieces of twigs, leaves and buds
on the potted dirt, clippings from the lawn,
and the bathtub's water awash with suds.

This is strange stuff, and this is kind of fun,
this is an experience and maybe
an experiment too. The beating sun
feeding them from above, and then there's me,

placing nutrients at their feet. Buds brim
from behavior I copy from The Sims.

You will probably not believe this shit
but I'm totally feeding my flowers
vitamin and caffeine pills chopped to bits
mixed with liquids and raining like showers

from a two liter plastic bottle on
the chopped up pieces of twigs, leaves and buds
on the potted dirt, clippings from the lawn,
water from the bathtub awash with suds.

This is strange stuff, and this is kind of fun,
this is an experience and maybe
an experiment too. The beating sun
feeding them from above, and then there's me,

placing nutrients at their feet. Buds brim
from behavior I copy from The Sims.

...

9

The agony is real.
it's like a pain
somewhere in
the

it's like pain everywhere
and
well,
The agony is real.

I really have no idea what i was agonizing about in this post. it was September. it just seems so long ago, and i really don't know what was going on in my life at that time.

...

10

Well. This happened.
and you know
i didn't want it to happen

Well. This happened.
and i was hoping it
wouldn't happen again

Well. This happened.
and you would things I would have gotten
over it by now

I don't really remember what was going on in this posts. there are  a number of screen shots from my Robinhood portfolio. I don't think that i was doing anything interesting at this time, i don't think i was writing options. but I'm really not sure.

...

...

548

best of all you can see
that I've been telling you
what you need to
see well here it
is.

Here's a poem
Vladimir Putin is a total Jerk
Who says the US sells satellites on sticks
Maybe, indeed, these 
are words in your mouth
Be glad its not my massive 7.5 inch
Super Willie!
Your behavior in Europe is definitely the obscenest:
Hope you never taste my super Weiner sweetness!
Here's a poem
Vladimir Putin is a total punk
He said the US sells satellites on sticks
Maybe, indeed, these 
are words in your mouth
Be glad its not my massive 7.5 inch
Super Johnson!

...

549

I took care of the parking issue, renewing my lease, paying my card. I registered my car,
Bought stamps.

I don't know what the future holds, but, I've founds stamps useful.
I want to buy some coins, and maybe some money.
What else?

...

550

I would like to take a nap.
and get some rest
and really put my head down.
yeah. that's really what I would
like to do.

...

The Chestnut + Hazel Logo is complete, not because I think that it has achieved perfection, but because I'm just not going to work on it anymore. I'm going to register a copyright for all of the attempts, and the one that I'm going to use as a logo is the one I'm going to register the trademark for.























So that's it, that's the Logo, that's the trademark. I'm done, and again, I don't think that it's prefect, but it's at a point in it's evolution, and I'm at a point in my energy levels where I think I'm going to leave it here.

...

Well, I guess I'll leave it there for now, one of the issues is that I completed the paperwork to register a copyright for The Complete Letters from Sanford Street, and it needs to be published somewhere, so I have to leave it there, in it's more or less existing condition before starting to edit it and all that. I'm not sure what's so sensitive about it, since is strictly text.

...

I don't know what to do about this.



















This is such a long post, and going over everything is going to take an eternity. This could take a long time to edit. This is a nightmare. This is all text and I could swear that there is nothing totally unusual here.

I'm continuing to work through The Complete Letters from Sanford Street, removing anything that I think violates the community standards. Even if I didn't have to deal with Blogger, I still have to deal with AdSense, so I might as well do all of this.


...

I'm getting ready to finish some work that I've been working on for the past few days. As far as going on another road trip goes, to Utah or Idaho, that's really something that's going to have to wait. I signed up for overtime next week, and, that's not really going to leave any free time for me, I signed up for two quarter shifts, and then half shifts were later offered, but I couldn't take them because I had already taken the quarter shifts.

...

Today is Friday, and I'm not really feeling in a particularly good mood. It comes and goes, but I'm not really sure how to shake it, how to get rid of this feeling of sadness. It's hard to function. Thank God I'd finished my homework. I'm compiling my Letters from Sanford Street Series. I can't really believe how long ago this all was. The whole Texas thing. weird times, something out of a nightmare. Letter's from Sanford Street # 490 is where the New Orleans Road Trip Disaster is documented.

...

Good god. What is this? I'm so sick of it. Out of nowhere the unhappiness. Out of the blue, the blues.

...

Class is over, and I'm really tired. I'm going to take a nap.

...

While taking, or attempting to take a selfie, I noticed that I'm really nice and fat, and that I could stand to lose some weight.

...

What do I have to work on? what things do I need to work on? Is there anything I need to do, and I'm just missing it?

...






























...



















































Thursday and Friday I'm off work. I kind of wish that I had moved a shift later on in the week because, like always, I could have used the money. but, I don't know what it is but I'm just not performing well at work. I'm tired all the time, and no matter what I do, it's the same issue, I've been consuming substantially more caffeine, but, to no avail, I'm just too tired and fatigued, and then I get these moment where I'm paralyzed with sadness. I shouldn't have skipped two days of work,

...

I'm back home. I'm in a better mood. I have to think. If I go anywhere again, I think I'll wait until Wednesday Morning of next week. That's August 2nd. I'm working on a favicon. It's related to my class coursework, but, I wasn't required to make a favicon, just provide an example of one. but I decided I would make a favicon for Chestnut + Hazel.

...













...



it looks like it works.




















...




































...











































...





































...






































...









































...





I feel like this one is pretty close.













































...
















































...

Unrelated, but I did see something funny, and thought it was something else:











it turns out it was just for campaign contributions for some such politician or another, but, yeah, I don't know. i kind of swore off online dating a few months back, and really, I don't really want to try that again.

...





...



































...








































...




...

https://www.chestnutandhazel.com/

...





...




...




...






































...







...






...

I need to keep note of this, i was able to get the favicon to have a transparent background.

  <head>


  <link rel="shortcut icon" href="https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEjb8Hx5yW14LtVGekHze9pQh6b6GB3Dzr0J-NXdXc-jvCPt28Mcag8ISOKii-XCRgHxuqgmY3t1Ff0y9C1AOH-r-PwAjBZd0sQfXNWLLjyU3RRskbWAt5j7R7-N1gx-0sEo0MUYlvF6h7AGlSYM_AchZPOMCkBONFj0LFaxasH9AW6NuNlJrOk75y55FcQ/s16000/dSpFCwwAkjCupJi%20(1)%20asfddsaf.png">


  </head>


...


it looks like it works.















...

Where these things 

are is where
you want
them to be.

...

  <head>


  <link rel="shortcut icon" href="https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEjb8Hx5yW14LtVGekHze9pQh6b6GB3Dzr0J-NXdXc-jvCPt28Mcag8ISOKii-XCRgHxuqgmY3t1Ff0y9C1AOH-r-PwAjBZd0sQfXNWLLjyU3RRskbWAt5j7R7-N1gx-0sEo0MUYlvF6h7AGlSYM_AchZPOMCkBONFj0LFaxasH9AW6NuNlJrOk75y55FcQ/s16000/dSpFCwwAkjCupJi%20(1)%20asfddsaf.png">


  </head>



















































