
Adventure # 3 - 10/11/2023 21:16 - Originally Posted In CSS\style.css

This is probably going to be the least user friendly blog ever. Tell me: are you reading this? Is it nice and user friendly?
because I'm not sure I really care, you're basically reading my diary. Whether or not it's user friendly isn't really my problem.

  /* 

  i basically couldn't figure out how to do this in javascript, but since this is a styling concern, I don't feel the least bit bad
  about styling it with Cascading Style Sheets:  HAHAHAHA!

  https://www.w3schools.com/tags/tag_small.asp
  https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_font_size.asp  
  https://www.w3schools.com/css/css_font_size.asp

  Currently Watching: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uyzZW6fpzik

  
  
  */

Adventure # 2 - 10/10/2023 20:41

I'm more tired than ever. More than I can possibly imagine. Today was a long day. Small victories I guess.

Adventure # 1 - 10/10/2023 10:48

I consider this published, even if it's unlikley anyone will come across this
or read it. There are times when I want to write things, but, less and less I feel
the desire to write them on chestnutandhazel.com I don't know what it is, but, I'm
starting to feel more "On Stage" when I write and post things there.

Maybe a few years back it seemed, it felt like there wasn't anyone really, you know
reading it.

I need to be working on Project 11, but for some reason I'm just not really getting anything done.
I've managed to figure out where my Contact Form is. It's something that I haven't really messed with
in a while, but Project 11 entails messing with it. So. That's what I'm up to.

There's a lot of cleaning up that needs to be done with the index page of my Github Repository,
and a lot of that cleaning up, with the code, cleaning up the appearance of my code wouldn't
really change the outward appearance of my page. It would just make it easier to change things around
but, considering that the course is almost over, I'm not really sure how much it makes sense to really
do anything about it.

I really have to get Project 11 done. I was reviewing the recording of the class session, and
it looks easy, and, I remember it being easy when I was doing it. I don't remember, but I 
think that I napped through part of the class, and came back around to it later.

One of the things about the class is that, I'm much more open to distance learning, or online coursework, or virtual classrooms,
or whatever, now that I've done it, back in 2018 or 2019 I think that I was really skeptical about it, and
I kind of brushed off a recruiter for an online degree program, but um, I think that I'm more open to it now.

I tried to get the favicon to work on GitHub, but, I can't seem to figure it out, and, since it's not an assignment,
I really didn't pursue the thing past the point of absolute frustration.

The favicon is more vanity than any kind of practical kind of a thing. Like I don't have a practical reason for setting 
up the favicon on GitHub other than the desire to have one.

I'm exhausted, and I really haven't done anything for project 11 yet.
I want to take a nap, but, that's a little bit of a risk considering that it's due today.
and, I really have to get to it because, in all probability, it's something that can be done in an hour or two, at most.
I'm so tired. I want to get a soda.

         
         
         
         


         I don't know what to do about CodePen. Migrating things to github is a small nightmare.
         
          <!-- 10102023 0423 form input validation project 11 -->
          <!-- 10102023 0442 form input validation project 11 -->
          <!-- I can't figure out where those mozzarella sticks are 10102023 0442 form input validation project 11 -->
          <!-- found those mozerella sticks, they were on linkedin, don't use linkedin to host images. they break after a while -->
          <!-- Spent nearly an hour updating chestnut and hazel hamburgers, an assignment from way early in the course the image links broke -->
          <!-- so I had to rehost the images elsewhere and create new links.  anyway back to project 11 10102023 0538-->
          <!-- 10102023 1008 I got sidetracked with a number of other things and I'm still working on this. -->

I'm feeling incredibly scatter brained. I have a project due for my software and web development course today, and I haven't even started. This should be simple, so I'm not too worried about it, but, at the same time, I know from the past that these things could take quite a while if I hit a brick wall.

There are other issues that I'm facing, especially on the income front. The temp assignment was not a particularly good fit, and, I really get the feeling that I should avoid any kind of warehouse or factory work, even though, that's sort of what I've been doing for the past five years, but I don't have the slightest clue what to look for.

Life is such an unbelievable struggle. I don't really know what to do about money. Somewhere in the back of my mind there's this voice telling me that I should stop looking for a job or employment or whatever, and, that I should focus on trying to make money doing stock market shit.




https://www.chestnutandhazel.com/2019/06/reflection-714-by-chestnut-and-hazel.html


Reflection # 714 by Chestnut and Hazel
I don't know exactly what I've been spending on buying lunch and soda at work, 
but I know that it is too damn much, I want to say it is around 15 dollars per day. 
Too fucking much. I have to cut down on that for sure.
By Chestnut + Hazel at June 11, 2019 

Notes written on 10/10/2023 @ 10:19 AM

I think that I wrote this post while I was working at Case New Holland. I'm surprised that I was really spending that much. I 
Wonder what I was buying? I don't really remember. I think that it was mostly energy drinks. I don't remember my exact hours. 
It was overnight is as much as I remember. In Cameron, MO there isn't really much to eat if you're up at odd hours.

I'm working on Project 11 for my Web and Software Development course. I'm not really getting much done. I'm getting sidetracked
with other things. I'm really amazed that I get so little done, especially considering that I've had few other obligations other
than class these past few months. I really wonder what I've been doing.

Earlier in the course I would have a lot of fun playing around with our daily assignments, but, I haven't really done that in a
while, even though there have been plenty of opportunities to do so.

