The Chronicles of Chestnut and Hazel
by Kenneth Larot Yamat dba Chestnut + Hazel

1

I ended the Epic Adventures of Chestnut and Hazel 
at stanza 1380 line 21712. I was more or less ready
to be done with it and submit it to the US Copyright
office, and I decided to publish it to katastrophiena.com
rather than at chestnutandhazel.com, partly because I need 
to develop that website.

2

but right now the US Copyright Office * is closed * until
later on today. I think that it said something * like 6:00
AM. so I guess I'm just going to hang back for a while.

3

I am a little bit frustrated right now with so many things.
Working on something for MIS 768 is something that I really
want to do, but since I have to audit this course, it really
seems to make more sense not to do any more work for the course
until. I don't know. a more opportune time.

4

[I still have stuff for MIS 764 that I can] Kenneth Larot Yamat
{work on at the moment, and even thought MIS 768} @KennethLYamat
[had more significance for me, like progession wise, I kind] · {of have}
[to see about finishing up whatever I need to for MIS 764] 58m
Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion 
in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated 
from the Holy See by being baptized an acolyte of Christianity 
& Co. Inc, PLC. so. You know. It's like that. Kenneth Larot Yamat
[and this is something of a headache for me right now] @KennethLYamat

5

What do I have to do today?

I have to try to get as much of my 
coursework done today as I can because 
I really need to work as much as I can 
during the weekend. Friday - Sunday.

I'm not totally strapped for 
cash,  but I'm almost totally 
strapped for cash.

6

how can I say
anything but 
good things
about you

really I have nothing
but really good things
to say about you and I
will say nothing but

good things about who
you are and how you were
to me. even if.

7

but for both of my blogs, both of my websites.
I think that I'm going to clear out anything 
that isn't poetry, this new style of poetry
that I am working with. Things like this. like
introspections and all that, are things that I 
will write primarily here on GitHub, rather than
on Blogger, or. I think that I will write them
here before publicly publishing them on Blogger.

8

I was on campus yesterday. I had class, but the class 
was held remotely. The campus has serious cell data 
coverage shadows, and, I had trouble connecting. It's 
not like I have passwords that are easy to remember, 
and I definitely don't use passwords, the same passwords 
for multiple accounts, so, I often I have to use an alternate 
authentication method to sign in, but if I'm in a serious 
coverage shadow, logging in becomes impossible, so, I 
basically couldn't log in, and I basically couldn't work 
on anything while I was on campus.

9

I still have to do some work. Money work right now, well
not right now, not this minute, I just finished, but I
have to work later today. this is such a nightmare. A 
real nightmare.

10

I really don't think that filing a software copyright is
enough. I really want to file a software patent. I really do.
Such a nightmare! MIS 768. I think that I'm failing. She
hasn't graded several of my assignments, and I haven't really
formally audited the course yet, thinking that I might still 
have a chance at a C. I would take a C in the course and move
one, but, it's still up in the air until I get a grade, but.
on March 29th I have to make a decision, and, when it all 
comes down to it, I can't risk getting anything less than a C,
so I do kind of have to Audit the course.

11

[there were a few challenges that were really insurmountable] · [and]
1h [I think that in a lot of ways I simply was not able to overcome them]
Okay: Twitter Blue or Twitter for Professionals? Here's the thing: 
there is a Twitter Parody Policy for Professional Accounts, and I've 
never figured this out, how is a factious remarks focused account 
different from parody account? and at what point have I crossed the line?

12

there are
crickets
all around and they
are eating
all of the plants

all of the crops
are being eaten by
crickets!

these crickets
are the meanest crickets
I have ever come across!

13

I tried to do some Door Dashing, but, for whatever reason 
I'm not able to get a very good connection, there are a 
few areas that I know for sure are real connection dead 
zone or real network coverage shadows, so I think this 
might be more due to network congestion, maybe the weather, 
or something, but, I was around the corner from home, so I 
just went back home, and maybe I'll try this again later.

It's not clear to me why a city like Las Vegas, the metro 
Las Vegas area would have coverage shadows at all, even, 
when I was on campus. The campus is definitely not in a 
rural area, my neighborhood isn't a rural area. I think 
that I often get better connections in rural areas than 
I do here.

Back at home, I think I'll do some homework for a few hours, 
but this means I might have to extend my door dashing past 
midnight starting later means ending later, that's just 
kind of the way it goes.

14

Change 
in my pocket

from looking at
the floor 

looking at the floor
to see if there are any

pennies on the floor
any change on the floor.

15

I'm still quite a bit * frustrated with 
the way * everything is going * right
now. The way everything is a disaster.

16

this new file is 60,000 lines, and that's 
after I removed the 22,000 lines to create 
The Epic Adventures of Chestnut + Hazel.

where did all of these lines come from?
this is a real headache!

17

so many things that are
changing that are horrible
that are a disaster that
are not very pleasant

these were where things turned 
Kenneth Larot Yamat [around and]
[where all things change] @KennethLYamat
and where all new things become · brand new 
[things of an interesting and novel form] 3h
The Alexander Peresvet laser weapon is named 
after Paris Alexander, the Trojan Prince who, 
resembling a well known actor, had a laser 
sharp look that caused uteruses to tremble in 
ecstasy and queef with exalted delight.

18

[what am I thinking about right now] Kenneth Larot Yamat
[I'm failing MIS 768 and it's not, probably not] @KennethLYamat
[going to turn around, I think I freaked out during the midterm] ·
[exam because it kept taking pictures of my face and I'm really] 4h
The best way for Finland and Sweden to get an inch 
in on Erdogan is by challenging him to a game of 
Bakugan, and winning, and that's Bakugan, not backgammon.
[annoyed when pictures of my face are taken] Kenneth Larot Yamat
[It's just something that really annoys me in a real way] @KennethLYamat

19

Darn. I'm really not sure what to do right now. I can blow off my
MIS 768 assignments, which I really won't get credit for anyway 
if I audit the course, but they are still kind of important anyway, 
or. Well, this is the last day of the pay period, so to speak, and 
any time I spend on MIS 768 coursework is time I take away from working.

20

[there can be no new things] "The Young Woman [except where we change] 
who is the Post Office" (2022) · [have you changed yet? your clothes?]
have you said anything to the competition about how we are silly people
[who are making new things when the people are changed?] Kenneth Larot Yamat

[has been] "This Is Just To Say Something About The Young Housewife" (2023)
things that have been changed for the better are nicer than things that 

[have rather changed for the worst when the oranges] 4h [oranges that can't]
The best way for Finland and Sweden to earn the respect of Erdogan is by challenging 
him to a game of Bakugan, and winning, and that's Bakugan, not backgammon.
[oranges that cannot be squeezed for sufficient juice] Kenneth Larot Yamat

21

[these are movies that will not get any money for] @KennethLYamat
[who wrote all of the things that were written here] · [the author]
[that were written about the people who are nuts] 4h [who are crazy]
The best way for Finland and Sweden earn the respect of Erdogan 
is by challenging him to a game of Bakugan, and winning, and 
[changes being made over time to say] that's Bakugan, not backgammon.
[that everything you just said is stressing us all] Kenneth Larot Yamat
[stressing every last one of us right the heck out and] @KennethLYamat
[driving us all crazy and making us all nuts] · [better than the butter] 
[and making us all nuts and making us all loony] 4h [these have not been] 

22

The best way for Finland and 
Sweden earn the respect of 
Erdogan, is by challenging him 
to a game of Bakugan, and winning. [is what it all does]
and that's Bakugan, not backgammon. [trade]
but there were oranges. Kenneth Larot Yamat
that made new ideas that changed. @KennethLYamat
all of these that made · most of these things new!

23

[I need to register two works of poetry] 4h
The best way for Finland and Sweden to 
placate Erdogan, is by challenging him 
to a game of Bakugan, and winning. and 
that's Bakugan, not backgammon. [both of them]
Kenneth Larot Yamat [totally epic poetry]
[you are happy but there are things] @KennethLYamat
that I think you are also very sad about · try to 
try to be happy right now 10h I know that you're sad.

24

Vaginal intercourse is a scam, and a 
conspiracy. Whenever you want to liquidate 
your position, you want to put the funds 
into different assets, not different money pits.
Kenneth Larot Yamat [but I'm not sure I will do that]
[if i could answer that I think I would] @KennethLYamat

25

but all of the butter
that was held back
and used on the
pancakes was rubbed

all over the
pancakes
all of the butter all
over the pancakes were

very yummy
I loved it all
and I thought it
was really greasy 
and buttery
and covered in goodness.

26

I've cleaned up my car quite a bit, but 
I still have quite a bit of stuff in there 
that I don't know what to do with, or that 
I haven't made a decision on how to deal 
with. I had shoes and clothes in there 
that I hadn't taken out for months.

something is wrong with how hairy I am
I feel that I am so darn hairy and that
my skin always tingles when I put on a shirt!

27

there are a number of things that I need to take
care of. I really think that I should complete whatever
assignment I need to turn in today for MIS 768, whatever
is due. I really want to try turning it in, but I also.
I also need to come up with money since this is the last.
day of the pay period. so. It's kind a headache of a 
balancing act that I have to figure out today. I also.
need to submit that other file to the copyright office.
the epic poem that I was working on over these past few.
days. and that I finally compiled. well. not completely,
but 22000 lines of the poem. I still have to deal with 
the 60000 lines of verse in this second poem. or part.

28

maybe when we see what you are. wearing we can see if. we.
are still interested in sleeping with each other. I want to
sleep with you, and you want to sleep with me. you said you
dig me but you don't always really seem to dig me as though
you aren't as really down as you suggested you really are.

I've been experiencing an elevated level of stress. I don't 
know what it is. The whole time I've been in Las Vegas I've 
been experiencing stress and fatigue. I really don't know 
what's causing this. I've tried to make changes like drinking 
more water, and I've noticed a slight improvement, but, a very 
very slight improvement. I've been drinking slightly less soda, 
but still quite a bit of it. I don't know what else to do.

29

As far as taking any road-trips goes, I haven't really planned 
anything or made any definite commitments to go on one. I just 
have that idea of a road-trip to Carson City then Salt Lake City 
and then back to Las Vegas. [but we saw what we liked and did it]

30

there has been. 
nothing there that. 
I didn't see before.

I did a minimal amount of working on my blog today. I changed a 
few of the titles on the Sanford Street series, just a few posts 
where the title was [NUMBER] Sanford Street to Letters from Sanford 
Street # [NUMBER]. I've been meaning to do all of them, but it 
honestly really doesn't matter. It doesn't look like ads are completely 
removed from my blog, it just looks like they are limited in some way, 
but it isn't clear to me how they are restricted. It's strange that my 
blog is flagged for being adult content because most of this is all 
text. It's not like I have pornographic videos and pictures on here.

and I couldn't see what it. 
was that I want to see and how.
the alien invasion began. we did not
think that aliens were real, but they were real.

06 21 03 11
20 08 09 19
11 04 07 07
23 08 01 20
01 02 01 02
04 09 19 01 
19 20 05 18
16 09 05 03 
05 34 45 23 
15 06 32 45
19 08 09 20
09 08 09 01 
05 20 08 09 
19 19 08 09 
20 95 62 32
06 21 03 11 
09 14 07 12
04 09 19 01 
19 20 05 18
05 22 05 18 
25 04 01 25 
09 19 01 03 
01 20 01 19 
20 18 15 16 
08 05 89 17
09 09 21 21 
27 57 23 96 
79 23 23 26

I could not understand. why
the aliens would invade earth. 
but I think it is because earth.
is filled with jerk offs.
we all know it's true.

31

It's cool to be a jerk off · it's a sign
of being super cool. you are cool. if you 
are a total jerk off 10h and we know it.
Vaginal intercourse is a scam, and a conspiracy.

32

I really have to figure this out * and I think *
that it is going to take me * quite a bit of time.
there are a few other things I also need to do.

I'm not always sure what I can do about this or 
that and I also have to figure out what I need 
to do. there are a few things that I really need.

to do but they aren't totally on the top of my mind 
that are at the forefront of my mind, that I am really 
thinking about and eating all the food was not the 
right thing to do.

33

there cannot be new things 
that make all of us mad all 
of the time and irritate 
us all that make us all mad 
and make every one of us 
irritated. this makes us all
really annoyed.

and makes us all
think that you are a total jerk.
so. what do you know!

tell us everything that you know 
and everything that is on your
mind. we need to know what the 
deal is.

34

there could be more things that make
all of us mad and angry that really 
turn things into a change but they 
are not going to be good for any of us.

35

how are all * the people who see * doing
what all of us are * thinking that are 
there seem to be new ideas covered in frosting 
Alexander Pushkin covered in frosting and 

totally ice cold and * freezing and cold
so tell me what * you are thinking * about
I know that you are a snowflake who is fragile.
and who melts down all the time and fries french.
there was nothing there that we didn't already know.

36

I need to work today. I need. well you know. it's the last
week of the month, last pay period of the month. I didn't 
slack off this week. I'm behind because I've moved my goals 
upward. I moved my financial goals upward after pushing my 
academic goals downward.

37

I submitted my Poem: The Epic Adventures of Chestnut + Hazel in 1380 Stanzas 
for registration to the US Copyright office, after publishing it on 
chestnutandhazel.com and katastrophiena.com

38

[there are a number of other things that are on my mind] Alexander Peresvet
[right now.] [I want to register module paper 3 with the us copyright office]
[but since I technically have 2 co-authors, I also technically hae 2 co-owners]
[this is kind of what's holding me back from registering it right now after]
[completing the registration request for The Epic Adventures. I don't know]
[I don't know what to do. I mean, I know how to register a work with multiple]
[authors and multiple owners, or claimaints, but, I don't know if it's ideal to]
[do it.]

39

Where the heck am I in terms of everything?
Well, I made it. Money wise. Thank god. that
was a nightmare. the first few days this week
were increadibly weak for me in terms of earnings.

Where the heck am I in terms of everything?
Well, I made it. Money wise. Thank god. that
was a nightmare. the first few days this week
were incredibly weak for me in terms of earnings.   

40

The first few weeks. the first few days this week 
were incredibly weak in terms of earnings for me.
so I basically had to work like really long hours
friday to sunday. anyway. I did it. Last week I was
in a similar situation, but it was more because I 
had a stretch goal. related to. something.

41

but. I still have a ton of things that I'm really 
frustrated about * that I'm stressed out about * that
are putting me * in kind of a bad mood. I'm trying to think.
right now about the * multitude of things * that I need * to
deal with right now.

42

there are things that are annoying and things that are
irritating and happiness is something irritating and there
are something that needs to be irritating where these do
[not see this and where you] Alexander Pushkin [can be there]

43

there was something that I think that I was thinking about.
I don't know what to think about it right now. well. whatever.

there may have been * a few other things * and there are * news
items about fun stuff that is amazing that is changing into new.

44

where are they when they are hiding under a very large rock under
the sea. hiding under a large sea rock. under a large sea shell 
[Alexander] under a large sea shell a bug a sea berg of ice. 
where can they be when they are hiding a large {Peresvet} rock

45

some of them 4 were hiding themselves under 4 a large rock when 
they can be * all around * the places where * they have all * been 
of all of the places * how they have all been * when they could be.

46

when they want to [Alexander] when they think that [Pushkin] those 
have they all been and see how they all when they change all they want 
see if they can * and where they * could be where * all of them want

47

for all the times
they see the stars
for all the time they
look in the sky and the
sky is bright with the 

light of the sky of the
light of the sky of the
coolness in the air where
it all freezes over of where
it is super cold and where it
all feels like the world is
ending. maybe those things

have been worse and seemed 
worse and they have all come
around and they have been changing
where most of those things have 
been changing for the better and

for the worst as well and how the 
end of all time will come to the start 
Alexander [and things change] Peresvet
and it makes new sense and it changes

48

so I changed all of that I made it 
better so that it can be where it is
without being somewhere else near the 

I have to start looking for work. * [but how]
can we make a 
new promise to
one another

where we tell
each other where
we tell one another

all of the best things
about ourselves to
one another? * [but can it work?] 
but can * I trust that 
you will know how 
all of us * are making
better ideas * than the * ideas
we had before when we saw it all?

49

can we say something 
new where all of the
old things we said

became new things
that air is part of the
sky and the oxygen

is where the carbon
monoxide is better
how it all works now

So. What am I going to do?
what I can say that there are 
some things * that never * exactly
change into * how all of these were.

50

dogs and eat more food than other animals
including cats that are exactly the same size
and I like how the dogs will often bark louder
than most cats will meow and it's nice to hear

when a dog is barking when the dog is barking
in a nice way when the dog is happy that the
dog food is to its liking when the dog food
when they all seem that they like more of the 
meats that were cooked and fed to the doggies!

51

I left work early twice this week. One day I took 
VTO, and the other day I took PTO. I went to a buffet 
in Chinatown, and I ate only about 2 or 3 plates of 
food, and then left. [how are all of the changes that]
are made when they are made when they are changed in 
a way that makes it all more amazing that makes it even
greater than who you are when who you are makes all these.

52

how can the
changes that
were made be
changes for the better
where the new things
become important things

that are valid changes that
are made amazing that are
made who can change and
who can count all the coins
in the bucket of coins in the
changes of the buckets of coins.

53

how can all
of the people who
were counted
during the last
census be counted

again the subsequent
census counts? they
will not be counted again!

54

What can there be when there are all of the things that 
Tired. I have to think, what do I need to get done?
say where you are when you seem to think that there are 
how are they are * when they seem * if they * all see you.

55

but if there can be things that people see when they happen to 
change over into a new place where they all seem to think of how 
The A. O. Smith SAP Financial Solutions Architect job opportunity
places that can see where they are and they need to be when they 
are all of them * see it? can you * see it when they * all fail now?

So this position would require relocation, but I already renewed 
my lease for 1 year, so, I don't know how this position would be 
feasible. I applied anyway since it was on my list of places to apply at.

56

hot dogs * and hamburgers * and chips * and things 
that are really good to eat and all over the place.
For a building company, however, I would 
actually be interested in a sales role. 
Or. I think that this is a building materials 
company. [people sell all the shells at the market]

I was really * unhappy at the * time and * I was falling 
into kind of a state of sadness that was hard to shake.
What am I thinking. I still have to figure out the whole 
school thing. Mainly just getting my transcripts. I don't 
know why I don't have copies of these already saved. nightmare.

I think that I may have had them on my previous laptop, 
or the laptop I had before my previous laptop.

57

where did it all go * when it was all counted * when it was * all changing 
when they see how they all where they see where they tell where they hear
Fucking tired. Heat fatigue. When it's hot, you'll fell tired. that's just 
how it goes. how they make most of the changes how they see most of the changes.

58

I need to figure out what to do with these
next few days. I didn't do the assignment 
for MIS 768, but it, it technically isn't due
until later, there is a kind of extension, like
a build in extension for the type of assignment
that is due, or that was due on Sunday. Everything
is really kind of a nightmare right now.

59

but there are * new hamburger innovations * being made
on the side of * the hamburger makers like the people 
who make all of the hamburgers and all of the people who 
I remember. I don't remember. well.[flip them on a grill]

Guess and check mathematics - Trial 
and Error Analytics - Fundamentals 
of Statistical Analysis - Advanced 
Fundamentals of Statistical Estimation 
Techniques [where are you testing things]
Weight Training, Fundamentals of Calculus, 
Creative Writing, Analytic Geometry

there can be changes * that are new * and people
who make things nicer and newer and * sell ideas.

How on earth do I deal with this? I have 3 pay 
periods until the end of the month. What do I have 
to take care of? Rent and credit cards. Mainly. I 
really don't want to bleed any more cash.

can i see
what you
are looking

at because I really
want to see what 
you are looking at

I really want to know
what you are thinking
about and what you seem

to think of as 
being so interesting
off in the distance.

60

a bottle
of soda
and a cup
of drinks that

can be had when
you drink all of the
ice and when you 

see what the soda
when mixed with
a bunch of ice in the cup.

I'm tired, well, I was tired. But, um. 
I'm just thinking. I can't believe how 
hot and humid it is. I'm not sweating, 
but this weather really sucks. I really 
feel like I never have enough fucking 
energy. Or, any extra energy. I do work 
long hours, and, being tired is normal 
in these cases.

61

I had 2 energy drinks today. I remember 
trying to cut down a while ago, and I 
just haven't been able to stay very alert 
or energetic without them.

There is a Circle K gas station on my way 
home that I've stopped at several times 
over the past few days. I still really 
like QuikTrip, but, I feel awkward going 
to the one near my house since I worked 
there, and, sort of quit abruptly.

What I couldn't stand was being switched 
from task to task. I would be in the middle 
of one task and reassigned before the task 
was completed, repeatedly, and then, knocked 
for leaving a previous task incomplete. Or, 
in some cases, I'd be rushed during one task, 
and then knocked for having skipped steps or 
having cut corners in some way or for missing 
some minor detail, when, I had I focused on 
the details, the task wouldn't have been 
completed in a timely manner. I figured that 
this abuse was simply either part of the culture, 
or, part of the process or something. So, I figured 
that someone else could deal with this. What a 
nightmare. Anyway.

62

there is something
really irritating that
I have to deal with
and it is. well. guess?

it is something so annoying
that you can see where the
oranges are playing the horses.

but there * are changes * so see
how they all make * new hours for
all of the places where we see them.

Sometimes I reflect on how one 
thing or another turned out, whether 
a social interaction or whatever, and 
sometimes I think, maybe, this or that 
response was suboptimal, or something. 
Maybe I didn't pass the test. Maybe I 
should have read about this specific 
thing beforehand, but I didn't and 
therefore didn't take the correct course 
of action.

63

can you see what all of us are
reading about and what we are
seeing and what the places are

that are changing that are making
all of the hard times harder that are
changing that are destroying the world

and that are making all of out lives
so much harder. I think that all of the
places that are harder are making it all worse.

64

I don't know that these 
were for and what they could 
Jan 1-7	   446.58
have been working on or what 
they mean what they mean or what 
they could tell me about this or that.

but can you tell me 55.16 what the problem 
is and what the 47.76 various issues are and 
how they can be changes 56.38 how there are 
places that make 57.2 new changes all the time 
and how all of these things 101.04 cane make 
new times old again and where 20 we see them

65

I'm somewhat tired. I had an energy drink. 
Mango! There is one by Monster, but, I realized 
that it isn't sugar free, so I figured that I 
wouldn't buy it again, or I'd switch back to one 
of the other ones. But there is one by BANG that 
was mango, and sugar free. Some of the flavors of 
energy drinks are so synthetic that, they don't 
really fit into any kind of description.

there was no way that we could see the new things
that were hiding in the dark and the dark nights 
make all of us really scared and when I took your 
advice. and places where you were and I hoped that.

You could tell me what there was and how all of us 
made new changes to the program where we all made us. 
and guess what 16 you seem to think that we all changed 

that we all could change, that we all seemed to 5 see 
that we all seemed to make 3 that we all made new places 
that we all told new ideas 7 that we all seemed to make 

that we could not be better, that we could not make sense 
of all the places that we could see that changed in a 
major way, in a sense we sold 5.89 more of what we saw.

66

but if it was something that we all saw 
Jan 8-14	      464.97
it could have been stranger it could have 
seemed like it was something interesting.

but how we cannot be seen and where all 
Jan 15-21	   553.25
the stranger places could have been and 
all of us are the changing where we are 
and maybe we can take all of these things 

and then there were all of these things that 
Jan 22-28	   455.5
changed us and how we cannot be more of us.

there could have been * more changes made 
and there was not * something that * we all see.

67

I'm super tired, I drank 2 energy drinks and they 
were highly ineffective. I requested the rest of 
the night off. [energy drinks don't really provide]
any energy and it's kind of annoying. I need more energy!

but there seemed to be quite a bit of junk there and
I don't know what I had to do with it all so I collected.
it and put it all into a junk folder where all the junk 
was collected and complied and placed into a junk folder.

68

I have to think about something. There are so many things
that I have to deal with that are totally irritating that
are totally garbage that totally make me annoyed in a major.
way. that are annoying in a real way, that are silly in 
a major way that are annoying that are silly that are dumb!
how can there * be new things * and the changes * silly!

What have I tried? In terms of improving my life situation? 
Sometimes events and circumstances seem to converge to 
prevent me from taking one path in life or another. 

The closest I've ever been to pursuing graduate school was 
when I was in Las Vegas, and, whatever life choices I made 
there, and, whatever challenges and temptations I was 
presented with didn't make attending graduate school 
particularly feasible.

I have to tell you * what there was * and what happened * okay?
Sometimes I think about the things in life that annoy me. 
It's nearly everything. [there was nothing more annoying]

69

some of those things are new things. some of those things 
are old things and changes can be made to make them more strange.
Verbiage Mathematics - Cryptographical Studies - Linguistic 
Sciences - Literature Analysis

how can you tell me what I want to hear when I haven't 
even said anything about the sort of things that I would 
like to hear? I have something in mind, but I haven't said 
anything about it, any details!

I was reading, in a Thomson Reuters newsletter, about 
a desalination plant in California that was blocked by 
environmentalists, and one things that the environmental 
group pointed out is that, water recycling is much less 
expensive, less energy intensive, and less destructive to 
marine life. and, even if the desalination plant is stopped, 
i'm sure that it can be retooled as a water purification 
plant anyway. or something. i don't think of myself as an 
environmentalist, i just happen to find the argument that 
they made compelling.

What else? nothing else for right now. I'm at my apartment, 
enjoying Bushmills, the rest of the bottle. I kind of want 
to play a computer game.

I think that everything that I need to get done, is done. 
so. I'll goof off for what's left of the day.

I'm getting together my college application. This is the 
third fucking time I've done this. UNLV, UMKC, and now UTA. 
I have to go.

What's one challenge that I'm facing? Well, I hardly 
know anyone out here. I don't want to get in contact 
with anyone from before Arlington.

Maybe I can ask the land lady for a letter of recommendation.
I just don't know. This is a nightmare. I don't know anyone.

70

There were a number of things that I did. I changed.
I did a few things. I did my logged my miles for my 
business. I really need to get together all my expenses
as well. This isn't easy.

I'm sure that I'll need a letter of recommendation. 
I don't. fucking. know anyone. I haven't made any 
friends or connections. maybe my land lady can write one.

One problem. Is. Running out of money before I get this 
started, or before I can get student loans. The general 
consensus is that going to graduate school is less prudent 
than going to a trade school or vocational school, but I 
definitely can't seem to get into a vocational school. I 
tried 3 times and I just couldn't do it. I have no idea 
what the fuck to do. This is a nightmare. A real nightmare.

71

Thinking about the issues that I've faced in the past. I think. 
I had an opportunity to go to UMKC, there was a position at the 
Post Office in Kansas City, that I declined, because it would have 
been less, in total, than what I was making working at the Tractor 
Warehouse and the Hotel.

I logged my miles. I need to figure out my expenses as well. The
thing is that, there are certain expenses that are accounted for 
in the logging of milage, and some that are not. some expenses. and
some expenses have different kinds of treatments.

but I remember thinking, that, maybe not going to UNLV or UMKC worked 
out for the best. The COVID-19 Pandemic hit, and, had I attended either 
UMKC or UNLV, it just wouldn't have worked out, or, it would have been 
disrupted in a major way.

With expectations of a recession, it might make sense for me to go to 
college now, this might be the. I don't want to think that this will be 
the last time that I do this. Running out of money is the biggest concern, 
right now.
but I have enough, don't I?
revanchist

similar
to vindictive or vengeful.
déclassé is similar to vulgar
Norfolk is pronounced like Knorr, 
the soy sauce, 
and fuck, like the sexual act.
Knorr-Fuck is sex. using soy sauce 
as a lubricant.

Ennui is listlessness? or boredom.
I'm tired. I hardly got anything done today. I went to the post office, 
and ended up goofing around in Downtown Arlington, Texas. It's already 
the morning, the day after. and I'm still kind of tired.

I've been feeling kind of discouraged about how much progress I've made 
paying down my credit cards, because I haven't really made any progress 
paying down my credit cards, but then I remembered that it's only been two 
weeks since April, so I've only been at it for two weeks.

72

sometimes when I am out picking up an order, I see way more other people
also doing door dash than I remember running into before. and this is 
well, I don't know.

The other day the dogs took my athletes foot cream, and I think they took 
it again today.

After setting up my phone fully, it seems to be working better than it had. 
This new phone seems to work better than my previous phone. The connection 
seems to be better than it was earlier, so I guess it's not that bad, maybe 
the only issue was setting it up.

I have a new phone, my old phone cracked and I've gotten around to replacing 
it. I haven't changed service providers. It's horrible. I can barely connect 
my phone to anything. The connection is terrible. I don't know what the hell 
to do. Absolutely horrible.

I see way more people doing door dash than I did before, but I also seem to 
get fewer orders. well. I don't know. I had a hard time earlier in the week.
I wanted to get my earning requirements out the the way earlier in the week, 
so that I could have the weekend to work on course work, but it didn't work 
out that way.

I'm going to file for unemployment. I doubt that I will have my claim approved, 
but it's. I think that it's important to file for unemployment, considering that 
I'm unemployed, um, because I think it's important to be part of the headcount of 
people who are not working, but looking for work. This is a nightmare, because, it 
feels like it just adds hassle to my day. I think of filing unemployment as similar 
to participating in the census. I guess. Maybe, filing for unemployment is kind of 
a waste of time, considering that I'm unlikely to get benefits, but, the maybe the 
same could be said about the census.

73

When it comes to dating. it seems that there is a kind of testing stage, 
with a subsequent authentication stage.
I don't know what to do. as far as work goes. I really don't.
e-Commerce Global Data Synchronization Network
experience with Salsify an asset [looking at and all of that]
ing with SAP, Salsify, PISA, PIM systems, and other database query tools
Workday [that i was trying to accomplish or what it was that I was]

QuikTrip Corporation, Arlington, Texas - 01/07/2022 - 01/26/2022
Part-Time Clerk [that was all about and what I was doing]
Epic Systems Corporation [or what i was thinking or what it was]
Do you have a minimum of two (2) years of e-Commerce 
Global Data Synchronization Network or similar product 
content platform experience in a private, public, 
government or military environment?
I don't really know what

74

So today is my first day of the work search. I applied 
for the position ANLY DIGITAL ASSET PRODUCTION at 3M.

I'm sure that I have the qualifications for this role, 
in fact, I'm sure that I can add more value to the 
company in this role than 15 asteroids of pure gold.
anyway.

I have to think.
I kind of like looking for work. 
I kind of like work prospecting.
Alexander Pushkin

I'm not looking for an employer, and there aren't any 
employers looking to hire a person like me, so that's it. 
I have to figure out how to figure this situation out.

people all over the world who eat fish. Alexander Peresvet
there are times when I feel like I'm often just there 
so that someone else looks good or better in comparison.
Like, there is really no reason for me to be here if 
Alexander Pushkin. If the only reason is to be a comparison 
item. and this is why I'm so irritated.

Research what it means to have security clearance.
I'm going to be out-competed every single time.

75

I was trying to make something out of all of those things 
that really went wrong. tried to turn all of those lemons 
into an amazing jug of lemonade where lemons go into lemonade.

James Carville Alexander Pushkin Peter Thiel
Alexander Peresvet J. D. Vance Tim Ryan
I actually want to donate to Nancy Pelosi, but then 
I would also have to donate to. I don't know. Ted Cruz. 
or something. I really don't want to think about all this 
other bull shit right now. Stop emailing me.

Anyway. I think I've taken care of the stuff for my 
Unemployment Claim. I think that I went over this before. 
I'm not sure if my claim would be approved, since I resigned 
for personal reasons. Part of the reason I filed for unemployment 
is because I'm unemployed, and, I believe that it's important to 
be part of the tally of the unemployed. I think of filing an 
Unemployment Claim as similar to participating in the Census, or 
Voting, or filing a Tax Return. The Unemployment Numbers are an 
important metric that decision makers use when deciding where and 
how to employ capital, if they are investors, or where and how to 
employ economic stimulus, if they are politicians or bureaucrats, 
or where and how to employ philanthropic efforts, if they are 
philanthropists. 

76

Anyway. What else do I have to do? Other college stuff, I think. 
I mean. College application stuff. I'm really fucking tired all 
the time. and I'm really. I really get distracted with other stuff too.

I'm just really skeptical about 
everything right now that there 
is nothing that I can do to change 
things.

Okay: Twitter Blue or Twitter for Professionals? Here's 
the thing: there is a Twitter Parody Policy for Professional 
Accounts, and I've never figured this out, how is a factious 
remarks focused account different from parody account? and at 
what point have I crossed the line?

sometimes I really feel like there is nothing that I can do 
to change my situation. like there is really nothing that I 
can do.

77

The Alexander Peresvet laser weapon is named after Paris Alexander, 
the Trojan Prince who, resembling a well known actor, had a laser 
sharp look that caused uteruses to tremble in ecstasy and queef with 
exalted delight.

Really darn annoyed. I really sometimes feel like there is nothing 
that I can do to change my situation. I'm just coming across setback 
after setback. and this is a real headache, and it's a real nightmare.

The best way for Finland and Sweden to get an inch in on Erdogan is 
by challenging him to a game of Bakugan, and winning, and that's
Bakugan, not backgammon.

The best way for Finland and Sweden to earn the respect of Erdogan 
is by challenging him to a game of Bakugan, and winning, and that's 
Bakugan, not backgammon.

The best way for Finland and Sweden earn the respect of Erdogan is 
by challenging him to a game of Bakugan, and winning, and that's 
Bakugan, not backgammon.

The best way for Finland and Sweden earn the respect of Erdogan, 
is by challenging him to a game of Bakugan, and winning. and that's 
Bakugan, not backgammon.
Vaginal intercourse is a scam, and a conspiracy.

I don't know what to do. I completed my milage logs for January 
and February. It doesn't really make sense to do them daily because 
it starts to take up a daily amount of my time.

The Alexander Peresvet laser weapon is named after Paris Alexander, 
the Trojan Prince who, resembling a well known actor,had a laser look 
that caused uteruses to tremble in ecstasy and queef with exalted delight.

I did not have hand-job relations with the lady in the blue dress.
The Martian prince is sending war funds to his ex, who's also the ex of 
the Sea god. The sea god responds by sending the lady in the blue dress, 
who insists she sucked a martian cock, but the lord of mars asserts he 
didn't get so much as a hand-job.

78

There was a fucking arachnid in my residence.
I don't think it was a Freudian Slip. I think 
it was Rhetorical Senility. Ranchero Dressing 
Jorge is pointing out that we can't demonize 
Bush for ousting Saddam, and praise puma pussy 
Pelosi for propping up Zelenskyy.

how can there 
be a new way of doing 
things how can there 

be an old way of
doing things when 
there can't be a new 
way of doing things.

when there is a new
way of doing things 
there is an old way of 
doing things.

The reason I'm not entirely in favor of student 
loan forgiveness is this: education expenses receive 
a tax credit, and a portion of student loan payments 
are tax deductible, so anyone receiving student loan 
forgiveness is triple dipping at the tax-payer's expense.

79

there were a new kind of
cups that were in the cup 
holders. 

when I went to the gas station
I was shocked when the price 
of a cup of soda was three
dollars. shocked! really SHOCKED!

Nig4mare:
Though it
Thought
Its just the wind. It's windy.

Dony
Dont freak out. Kenneth.
It's just thr wind.
He's a fucking baby.
Hes a . Scardy kennet

Hes a scary kenneyh.
Hes afraid. That's all. 
Scardy cat scardy cat!

how can there 
be a new way of doing 
things how can there 

be an old way of
doing things when 
there can't be a new 
way of doing things.

when there is a new
way of doing things 
there is an old way of 
doing things.

Some ideas for a working title?
Notes from Arlington Texas # 1.362 how strange 
Notes from Arlington, Texas # 1.362 can it be?

80

can you really see what I
am looking at right now? 
because I really don't think 
that you can! I really don't 
think that you can really see it!

Write this down. Ona new sheet of paper.
Iou have been optimized for poetry. 
Thats your greatest and bet
when you see Ne what it is all about
Best use for everyone.
So keep writing.
Dont work meo
Dont worhk
More than you need t
Need to
And enjoy writing.

These are a few of my idea. right now. i'm really tired..
my idea. don't worry too much about the imperfections
in your writing, like. let it come out however it comes it
and let someone else fight over the meaning, and
create.

let someone else edit it, and let someone else fight over the meaning.
but how are d those people who were over there and naked. hairy!
just don't worry about it too much. just enjoy yourself.
get some rest. write about it.
enjoy it. 

you will enjoy it. writing. don't worry too much about all
that other stuff you are worrying about.

81

see what this is can you see 
what this is can you tell what
this is what this is and how it

is going and there is no thing
that can be what there is and 
what they seem to be saying 

but can 
you hear
all of the
colors 

and can you smell
all of the colors and
shades of light

become things that
you can hear can be
places that you can see

and you can see the smells
and you can taste different
shades of the light refracting
from a prism.

and what they want to be saying
and how they all see what they
are saying and what they make
when they take all their hair off?

More nightmares.
In many ways.
  I should have
Just stayed at work.
Nightmare
N8ghtmare

Nightmare. 
Man.
Nightmare
Okay. New page.

I'm helping you. Okay. We just need to make 
this profitable, some how, and this is 
more or less what we've got.

so here was the experience I had tonight. 
i realized, that. sometimes i'm such a loner, 
that. i feel like sometimes people want to help 
me, but i always want to be able to stand on my 
own two feet, to provide for myself.

82

and maybe that's not always the easiest thing to do. 
sometimes,
it really is hard.

sometimes.
it's a really
sometimes is

sometimes it's a real struggle to do this.
a real struggle.
so difficult.

part of it is that i don't get enough sleep.
and
maybe i should just take it easy for a while

and
let someone else do the work that i enjoy doing the most
and I should jsut. i shjould

i should just docu
is 
i should jsut f

i should just docu
i should focus on doing the things that i enjoy doing
earn a reasonable amount of money from it.

don't engage in too much bad behaviour
any m
and maybe that's it.

i get to do 
what i want to do
for the time being

and maybe what i;ve
and maybe what i've done is already enought
so who knows.

i'm going to finish my nap
Kenneth.

83

So, kenneth your worst fears are over. 
You just needed to celebrate something. 
Other. Than going to work.

Okay. It's not a big deal to 
shoot youself in the foot.
You're not dead!

And your actual foot is perfectly fine: look!
It's a perfectly good, actual foot.
You have a wonderful foot!

It's foot porn!
Nasty! Pervert! Foot porn! Better writr be . 
Better writr me a pem.
She is the
Nightmare of my dreams!

but all of us are looking
down the places that are
all at the bottom of the 
plate where the houses

are changed and they can
be where they are and they
make new places out of the

twigs and the branches and
the bales of hay and the bricks
that are new and the places
that are new and the shades.

She is the 
Nightmare
Of my dreams!

84

I'm thr girl you want to use.
Just write it.
No one. Is going to writr you a letter of recommendation.

So here is one thing
I took a nap
I took time off of work to nap during may the fourth, and cinco de mayo

althou
although the precision of that statement isn;'t entirely correct.
Here is my idea;

85

Another reason is that many employers offer tuition and education 
reimbursement incentives, and it's not really a huge indignity for 
anyone from an economically disadvantaged group, for example, the 

proletariat, to bag groceries, or pour coffee, or pack boxes, or count cash.
Another reason is that many employers offer tuition and education reimbursement 
incentives. It's not really a huge indignity to bag groceries, or pour coffee, 
or pack boxes, or count cash.

Another reason is that many employers offer tuition and education 
reimbursement incentives. It's not really a hug indignity to bag 
groceries, or pour coffee, or pack boxes, or count cash.

Another reason is that many employers offer tuition and education 
reimbursement incentives. It's not really an indignity to bag groceries, 
or pour coffee, or pack boxes, or count cash.

The reason I'm not entirely in favor of student loan forgiveness 
is this: education expenses receive a tax credit, a portion of 
student loan payments are tax deductible, so anyone receiving 
student loan forgiveness is triple dipping at the tax-payer's expense.

86

what there was and what they saw #usedgov
and what camed to be where they all @usedgov
changed and made things thatKenneth Larot Yamat
there were all of these things @KennethLYamat

but they made new things out of all those old things May 19
One of the reasons I'm not entirely in favor of student loan 
forgiveness is that: qualified education expenses receive a 
tax credit, a portion of student loan payments are tax deductible, 
so anyone receiving student loan forgiveness is triple dipping 
at the tax-payer's expense.

but there would have been nice things that were Kenneth Larot Yamat
there and there were all these things that could be changed @KennethLYamat

there can be all these things and changes May 19
If Vladimir Putin thinks he's going to win: he's 
got another thing coming! Anglozilla and Danezilla 
are coming for Sovietzilla!

#vladimirputin:-(but all these) we may be at odds with one another
and maybe we get angry that things are not #anglozilla!
happening fast enough for the walls to be nice. #danezilla!
#sovietzilla:-(and all of them) there are a number of problems

87

[but there can be new places] Kenneth Larot Yamat
[for you to see somewhere else out there] @KennethLYamat
[and maybe you can see what it is all about when we] 3m

Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion 
in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated 
from the Holy See by being baptized an acolyte of Christianity & 
Co. Inc, PLC. so. You know. It's like that.

[but it really scares me to talk about it because] Kenneth Larot Yamat
[I'm not really sure if it's actually a total problem] @KennethLYamat
[and I'm not really sure if there are big issues there when it happens] 
[and I have no idea what it was all about it scares me] 40m

Okay: Twitter Blue or Twitter for Professionals? Here's the 
thing: there is a Twitter Parody Policy for Professional Accounts, 
and I've never figured this out, how is a factious remarks focused 
account different from parody account? and at what point have I 
crossed the line?

88

[jesus, life is such a nightmare right now a total nightmare] Kenneth Larot Yamat
[I'm thinking about a number of things a different number of things] @KennethLYamat
[maybe we can make eachother mad and do things that piss each other off] 2h

The Alexander Peresvet laser weapon is named after Paris Alexander, 
the Trojan Prince who, resembling a well known actor, had a laser sharp 
look that caused uteruses to tremble in ecstasy and queef with exalted delight.

It always annoys me when someone tells me that I look tired. I am 
tired. In fact: I'm really fucking tired. Those people who don't 
look tired, they have privilege: Round Eye Privilege. Privileged 
Round Eye Individuals.

I'm usually really fucking tired. Those people who don't look tired, 
they have privilege. Round Eye Privilege. Privileged Round Eye Individuals.

I remember not really using Twitter until recently. I used Facebook 
for the longest time. Switching over from platform to platform isn't 
really all that easy. and signing up for new ones is usually a nightmare. 
I just don't want to sign up for any more of these.

Okay. All of my bills are paid up through the end of June. I start work 
at the end of May. I think I might be okay, even if I don't get anything 
from Unemployment. I just need to make sure that I start working. Okay, 
what else? Let's see. I really don't want to tap my investment accounts 
more than I really need to.

89

[there can be a whole bunch of things that don't exactly] Kenneth Larot Yamat
[go well and there are a whole bunch of things that annoy all of us] 
[there are winners, and there are losers, and that's decided] @KennethLYamat

[at the very beginning of the competition and they all know it for real] 5h
Mao Zedong was going to lead the Wanton Assault team into a verloren hoop 
charge at the Wehrmacht's left flank, then rear guard, but he got bogged 
down fighting the Imperial Sushi Masters and the Prince of the Peking 
[how can we see what we need when we need it] Duck Dynasty: Chiang Kai-shek!

[there can be similar stages and changes who they have seen] #VladimirPutin
[when you see what they were all about and how they changed and] #Stalingrad
[how they made off with all of the gold from the coffers] Kenneth Larot Yamat
[I missed everything and it did not get any better at the time] @KennethLYamat

90

[see what you did! you changed everything that made everything right] 5h
I fought for the Allies at Stalingrad as part of the Fried Rice Auxiliaries 
of the Red Army, Ho Chi Minh and Emiliano Zapata were my Comrades in Arms, 
but the Soviets had logistical problems then, as now, and we were given only 
[see what you did you made everything late] one rifle for the three of us.
[and you did all the wrong things that were totally bad stuff] #vladimirputin

there are things that make
things better when the time
goes past the clock and the

clock gets longer and rounder
and there are places where the
people changed new things into

even newer things and they are
limits to what can be done at the
time so we changed things into.

I'm having something of a breakdown
like a real nervous breakdown and it
really sucks. I'm having a breakdown.

This is the last day of the work week. That went really fast. 
It usually doesn't go by that fast. I did sign up for overtime 
this week. A half shift in the middle of my weekend, and that's 
both a good thing and a not-so-good thing. It has positives and 
negatives. On the one hand it breaks my weekend, but on the other, 
it doesn't lengthen my workweek the way it would if it were at 
the beginning or at the end of my workweek.

I've been thinking about going somewhere, not anywhere too far, 
but I'm not really sure if I should or not.

i imagined you called me
and asked me to coffee
i imagined zero things i'd rather do
than have coffee with you

I went to the buffet yesterday. I got a fortune cookie and I feel 
like fortune cookies are my, secondary of course, but almost a 
second primary reason for going to the buffet. I was disappointed 
with what it said because it didn't feel like it really meant anything 
to me. it said something like: an optimistic heart clears the path to 
victory. and I'm not even sure how that's relevant to me.
My work week isn't that long. I work four days a week. nights.

My work
week isn't
that
long.

91

Sometimes I get lost in my thoughts. mostly about the long series 
of disappointments and setbacks I've faced during my life. I'm 
almost ready to try again. or try something new. I don't really 
know what to try my hand at though.

I don't
really
know
what to 
try
though.
I really don't.

I think of there being three things. three possibilities, some kind 
of educational pursuit, some kind of technical training, and some kind 
of second job or side hustle. I'm still really resentful about how 
things turned out for me at UT Arlington. Really angry. Furious.

Today is the first day of the work week. I work nights, so I still have 
several hours before I have to go in. I read emails, I'm doing laundry 
right now. is there anything else I can really do?

Today is the last day of the weekend.
Looking back at this mini road trip. I really wish I had taken more 
pictures of Ely, NV. The part of the town that isn't totally brand 
new has a really distinct look to it.

92

I went on a road trip. A super tiny one, much less ambitious than I had 
originally planned, but it still felt longer than I wanted, and yet, I 
also spent so much time on the road that it isn't clear to me why I didn't 
reach my goal.

My original goal was Las Vegas, NV to Elko, NV to Salt Lake City, UT to 
Saint George, UT to Las Vegas, NV, but that didn't happen.

Early on in the trip I changed my goal from Elko to West Wendover, NV, 
figuring it would be a shorter trip between West Wendover to Salt Lake 
City, and also figuring that I might see the Mormon Crickets in West 
Wendover anyway.

Didn't happen. I got tired around Ely, NV, and then figured that's enough. 
I spent maybe 14 hours on the road. So yeah, that's really enough driving for me.

A few days ago I came across old posts from road trips that I had taken in 
the past, and I realized that so many of them coincided with difficult times 
in my life, and I kind of wondered if maybe difficult times in my life present 
themselves because I need to get out of the house or something, and also 
remembering that I almost went on a road trip the other day out of frustration.

Like, maybe the Universe itself is telling me I can't stay in bed and sleep all 
day, or play computer games.

I figured I'd go on a road trip without the Universe forcing me to do so.

The other kind of motivating factor was that I saw an overtime sign up. I 
missed it, obviously, otherwise I wouldn't have gone on a road trip, but it 
made me somewhat optimistic that I could go on a road trip without the cost 
of doing so effecting the deadline I'd set for myself to pay off my credit cards.

I recently transferred to a new work location, and I wasn't really expecting 
overtime to be a thing at this new location.

93

Yeah, so I'm back home now, I did not see any Mormon Crickets. 
NOT A SINGLE MORMON CRICKET! AT ALL! I'M SO ANGRY! 
[and this is not really going to be good.] #mormoncrickets
I'm on my way back home after not seeing a single Mormon Cricket 

[I really think that everything is a disaster that] #mormoncricket
I'm going to see the Mormon Crickets 
[that I'm really having a hard time dealing with] #mormoncrickets
I kind of want to visit Elko, Nevada to see the Mormon Crickets. 
[this is not going to be amazing it's a disaster] #mormoncrickets
I ate 4 hot dogs and a box of ice cream.
June 23, 2020 · Shared with Public I ate 4 
hot dogs and a box of ice cream.

40 31 86 43 02 07 02 08 49 07 00
06 23 20 23 11 23 04 21 27 27 20
02 69 02 69 02 60 69 00 00 20 69
17 00 30 00 31 01 10 06 02 12 03
01 39 03 41 19 16 08 16 08 00 17
30 03 30 00 10 22 56 50 24 01 33

00 02 59 43 01 07 03 00 02 01 00
00 01 00 02 02 05 06 05 00 02 40
19 33 00 33 21 55 21 22 58 06 22 
23 09 00 04 04 03 96 04 03 90 03
04 03 07 01 02 09 09 03 06 09 06 

31 01 10 07 94 24 01 88 00 10 30 
10 70 30 00 60 80 80 50 00 00 90
11 12 25 11 23 25 11 23 04 25 01
12 50 11 00 12 00 05 11 55 22 33

13 29 05 29 86 26 31 80 53 03 03
02 32 20 32 10 03 06 04 42 52 62
65 77 10 01 50 00 01 30 01 16 63
02 05 27 33 37 58 02 03 01 05 15
00 32 01 07 11 06 58 25 74 14 85
02 05 27 33 37 58 65 45 78 98 32
59 01 07 11 06 11 23 04 25 95 25

80 86 20 02 32 23 10 01 41 14 51
01 19 19 00 17 21 05 05 14 11 23
65 32 78 98 56 32 00 02 02 32 12
12 12 32 56 34 23 15 32 02 23 65

[so many things that make] Tweets & replies
[things annoying that makes things horrible] Media
[and I think that it annoys me in a major way] Likes
[I think that it makes things] Kenneth Larot Yamat’s Tweets
[change things in a major way in a major] Kenneth Larot Yamat
[way and it's all horrible and it's all] @KennethLYamat
[a disaster and it's not really going well] 2m
The reason I'm not entirely in favor of student 
loan forgiveness is this: education expenses 
receive a tax credit, a portion of student loan 
payments are tax deductible, so anyone receiving 
student loan forgiveness is triple dipping at the 
[and it's all terrible in a whole new way.] tax-payer's 
[so how can it be said that I didn't do it?] expense.

94

what a headache. what a nightmare, what a garbage 
dumpster fire or whatever you want to call it, what
a disaster headache whatever you could call it it'S
a nightmare! [and I know this and I see it all the time]

[but there are too many problems going on] #usedgov
[and there are too many problems that I'm] @usedgov
[facing and it's a disaster in a major] Kenneth Larot Yamat
[way and it's a disaster for me in a major way] @KennethLYamat
[and it's all a real nightmare that I can't get over.] 4m

One of the reasons I'm not entirely in favor of student loan 
forgiveness is that: qualified education expenses receive a tax 
credit, a portion of student loan payments are tax deductible, 
so anyone receiving student loan forgiveness is triple dipping 
[there are optional things that you] at the tax-payer's expense.
[can come across and sense as being amazing] Kenneth Larot Yamat
[but there are a whole lot of nightmares that change] @KennethLYamat

95

[there are a number of different places out there that change] 5h
If Vladimir Putin thinks he's going to win: he's got another thing 
coming! Anglozilla and Danezilla are coming for Sovietzilla!

[things that are not allowed. Moscow as attacked] #vladimirputin:-()
[and I think that this is just the beginning, more will come] #anglozilla!
[and it's not clear to me what happens next. it's the beginning] #danezilla!
[but it might be the end, it might be an isolated event] #sovietzilla:-()

[things started to get worse in a major way things got] Kenneth Larot Yamat
[a whole lot worse things became more terrible than they already] @KennethLYamat
[were, and it was a nightmare, and it was a disaster and it was really sad.] Now
Another reason is that many employers offer tuition and education reimbursement 
incentives. It's not really a huge indignity to bag groceries, or pour coffee, 
[and it really sucked. for everyone. seriously] or pack boxes, or count cash.
[I am not even joking. everything became a nightmare. a disaster.] Kenneth Larot Yamat
[if it matters, then what I would suggest is taking a different approach] @KennethLYamat
[but can it be true? can it be the real deal can it be a nightmare how it is?] 13s

96

the only think that I can really say right now is that everything is a total 
disaster. and everything really sucks.

Another reason is that many employers offer tuition and education reimbursement 
incentives. It's not really a hug indignity to bag groceries, or pour coffee, or 
pack boxes, or count cash.

I completed my mileage logs for january and february, and cleaned out some of the
business expenses that I've incurred during those months. some of the expenses. I 
really don't even want to think about all the other crap I have to log for those 
months as well. I really don't even want to think about it. what a nightmare.

Another reason is that many employers offer tuition and education reimbursement 
incentives. It's not really an indignity to bag groceries, or pour coffee, or 
pack boxes, or count cash.

but I have no idea, maybe it will all be very very easy, and it might not even be 
something I even have to sweat too much over. it might not even be a totally big
deal it might be a totally small deal and I might not even have to worry about it.

97

What am I thinking about right now. Well. about how everything is a nightmare.
Still. forever and for all time. how nightmares are always nightmares and 
these nightmares never end. this week ends on the 30th. This might be a waste 
of time, but I think that I'm going to continue working on some of my MIS 768 
stuff this week. I nervous break down. and I might be back on track, but this
was all a really big set back for me.

       4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges
       4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems
       4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:
       4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work
       4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 		
       4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 		
       4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 		
       4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 							

(4/28) Module 4 											                     Group Paper

       4.1.0 The Landscape of Emerging Technologies				      Vicky
       4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems		         Vicky
       4.1.2 Editorial Emergent Tech and Organizing			         Vicky
       4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:						               Vicky
       4.1.4 Quantum Computing and Information Systems		         Vicky


       4.2.0 The Changing Nature of Work						            Kelly
       4.2.1 Editorial Future of Work Organizations Society		      Kelly
       4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work			         Kelly
       4.2.3 Mental Health and Information Technology		            Kelly
       4.2.4 Waging war from remote cubicles				               Kelly

(4/25) 4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges 			         Kenneth			Group Presentation
       4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 					               Kenneth			Vicky
       4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 					                  Kenneth			Kelly
       4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 			            Kenneth			Kenneth
       4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 				            Kenneth			Kenneth
       
(5/5)  Group Project

98

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
[but there were all of these apples in the bin] 38s
done - finally    - Module 3 											Kenneth

Kenneth Larot Yamat
@KennethLYamat
[but there were how many of them who took all things seriously] 5m

The reason I'm not entirely in favor of student loan forgiveness is this: education 
expenses receive a tax credit, a portion of student loan payments are tax deductible, 
so anyone receiving student loan forgiveness is triple dipping at the tax-payer's expense.

well. I don't know. I'm failing MIS 768, but, I think I have a small amount of time where
I can kind of work on some of the stuff for the class. so. I might do a few more things. 
Complete a few more assignments and all of that. I don't know, but it still feels like kind
of a waste of time at this point.

MIS 764

       4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges
       4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems
       4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:
       4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work
       4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 		
       4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 		
       4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 		
       4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 							

(4/28) Module 4 											                     Group Paper

       4.1.0 The Landscape of Emerging Technologies				      Vicky
       4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems		         Vicky
       4.1.2 Editorial Emergent Tech and Organizing			         Vicky
       4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:						               Vicky
       4.1.4 Quantum Computing and Information Systems		         Vicky


       4.2.0 The Changing Nature of Work						            Kelly
       4.2.1 Editorial Future of Work Organizations Society		      Kelly
       4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work			         Kelly
       4.2.3 Mental Health and Information Technology		            Kelly
       4.2.4 Waging war from remote cubicles				               Kelly

(4/25) 4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges 			         Kenneth			Group Presentation
       4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 					               Kenneth			Vicky
       4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 					                  Kenneth			Kelly
       4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 			            Kenneth			Kenneth
       4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 				            Kenneth			Kenneth
       
(5/5)  Group Project

99

this is where oranges change into blorganges and blorgannis 
eat more of the plortanzikas! there seems to be florblankas!

So for MIS 768, I'm really only on the material for Week 7, 
and this is way behind. I had a nervous breakdown. Jesus. well.
I'm going to see what I can do this week. and see where it goes.

so what is it. well I asked Google, or Gemini, if an item can
go on the balance sheet without going through the income statement,
it said no, 

then i asked if capitalized items are on the income statement, and 
it said no, it's on the balance sheet.

what I'm trying to figure out is, does the initial capitalization
happen on the income statement? or is it just the amortization of 
the capitalized item?

100

this is where oranges change into blorganges and blorgannis 
eat more of the plortanzikas! there seems to be florblankas!

So for MIS 768, I'm really only on the material for Week 7, 
and this is way behind. I had a nervous breakdown. Jesus. well.
I'm going to see what I can do this week. and see where it goes.

so what is it. well I asked Google, or Gemini, if an item can
go on the balance sheet without going through the income statement,
it said no, 

then i asked if capitalized items are on the income statement, and 
it said no, it's on the balance sheet.

what I'm trying to figure out is, does the initial capitalization
happen on the income statement? or is it just the amortization of 
the capitalized item? [so what is it. ]

101

well I asked Google, or Gemini, if an item can
go on the balance sheet without going through 
the income statement, it said no, 

then i asked if capitalized items are on the income statement, and 
it said no, it's on the balance sheet.

what I'm trying to figure out is, does the initial capitalization
happen on the income statement? or is it just the amortization of 
the capitalized item that happens on the income statement?

102

So what I'm seeing is, the initial capitalization DOES happen
on the balance sheet first WITHOUT going on the income statement.

but that capitalized item DOES pass through the income statement
through the process of amortization.

and that's the thing. I need to capitalize a few things and I 
don't want that initial capitalization to count as income.
because it's not income, it's an expense.

103

[but how are all the things] #usedgov
[that change where we are and make] @usedgov
[the ladies nice and happy!] Kenneth Larot Yamat
[but you can see where they are] @KennethLYamat
[and same as them all] · [where they are in them] 
[some of them change to where they are and naked] 7m

104

MIS 764

       4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges
       4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems
       4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:
       4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work
       4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 		
       4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 		
       4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 		
       4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 							

(4/28) Module 4 											                     Group Paper

       4.1.0 The Landscape of Emerging Technologies				      Vicky
       4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems		         Vicky
       4.1.2 Editorial Emergent Tech and Organizing			         Vicky
       4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:						               Vicky
       4.1.4 Quantum Computing and Information Systems		         Vicky


       4.2.0 The Changing Nature of Work						            Kelly
       4.2.1 Editorial Future of Work Organizations Society		      Kelly
       4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work			         Kelly
       4.2.3 Mental Health and Information Technology		            Kelly
       4.2.4 Waging war from remote cubicles				               Kelly

(4/25) 4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges 			         Kenneth			Group Presentation
       4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 					               Kenneth			Vicky
       4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 					                  Kenneth			Kelly
       4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 			            Kenneth			Kenneth
       4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 				            Kenneth			Kenneth
       
(5/5)  Group Project

105

One of the reasons I'm not entirely in favor of student loan forgiveness is that: qualified 
education expenses receive a tax credit, a portion of student loan payments are tax deductible, 
so anyone receiving student loan forgiveness is triple dipping at the tax-payer's expense.
but there are times when the chickens cluck and the dogs bark and the geese make their 
whatever noise that geese often make, and I hav no idea about what noise they Kenneth Larot Yamat
make, not the slightest clue! when the oranges make new kinds of juice they make old @KennethLYamat

106

I began to realize how much of a · total loser I happen to be
and, I've finally come to terms with it, and that is that! 5h
If Vladimir Putin thinks he's going to win: he's got another 
thing coming! Anglozilla and Danezilla are coming for Sovietzilla!

107

// this course has been a total nightmare. I mean. It's not just the course,
// I think that if my overall circumstances were less challenging, then,
// it wouldn't be as problematic as it turned out to be.
// 			Anthropomorphic Tales in Java, Dedicated to Han-fen Hu, Ph.D.
// 			I had to remove punctuation Marks in the file name
// Challenging // challenging

[i don't think. well. it's just an overall kind of headache nightmare that] #vladimirputin:-()
[I'm dealing with right now. it's not one specific thing or another, it's the overall] #anglozilla!
[picture of what I have to deal with at the moment.] #danezilla! [I think about why does one thing]
[not work out or another or why this or that is a disaster. it's a bunch of things!] #sovietzilla:-()

108

MIS 764

       4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges
       4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems
       4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:
       4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work
       4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 		
       4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 		
       4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 		
       4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 							

(4/28) Module 4 											                     Group Paper

       4.1.0 The Landscape of Emerging Technologies				      Vicky
       4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems		         Vicky
       4.1.2 Editorial Emergent Tech and Organizing			         Vicky
       4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:						               Vicky
       4.1.4 Quantum Computing and Information Systems		         Vicky


       4.2.0 The Changing Nature of Work						            Kelly
       4.2.1 Editorial Future of Work Organizations Society		      Kelly
       4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work			         Kelly
       4.2.3 Mental Health and Information Technology		            Kelly
       4.2.4 Waging war from remote cubicles				               Kelly

(4/25) 4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges 			         Kenneth			Group Presentation
       4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 					               Kenneth			Vicky
       4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 					                  Kenneth			Kelly
       4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 			            Kenneth			Kenneth
       4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 				            Kenneth			Kenneth
       
(5/5)  Group Project

109

I think that if my situation. My overall situation. were less challenging, then maybe things would not
have gone this way, but so far everything has been some kind of major disaster right now. Really!

Another reason is that many employers offer tuition and education reimbursement incentives, and it's 
not really a huge indignity for anyone from an economically disadvantaged group, for example, the 
proletariat, to bag groceries, or pour coffee, or pack boxes, or count cash.

Spam emails. Some of this stuff I probably would buy, but right now. I kind of have to relax on any 
additional spending. when I think about what could possibly go wrong over the next few months: it just 
kind of makes me want to be cautious.
Ocelot - Cougar - Puma - Mountain Lion - Jaguar

this article that makes a distinction between 
when an archived item is withdrawn, or 
suppressed / sequestered. 

I'm tired and hungry. I went out to eat 
the other day, and spent way 
too much money, and yet, I'm hungry today.

110

MIS 764

       4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges
       4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems
       4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:
       4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work
       4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 		
       4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 		
       4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 		
       4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 							

(4/28) Module 4 											                     Group Paper

       4.1.0 The Landscape of Emerging Technologies				      Vicky
       4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems		         Vicky
       4.1.2 Editorial Emergent Tech and Organizing			         Vicky
       4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:						               Vicky
       4.1.4 Quantum Computing and Information Systems		         Vicky


       4.2.0 The Changing Nature of Work						            Kelly
       4.2.1 Editorial Future of Work Organizations Society		      Kelly
       4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work			         Kelly
       4.2.3 Mental Health and Information Technology		            Kelly
       4.2.4 Waging war from remote cubicles				               Kelly

(4/25) 4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges 			         Kenneth			Group Presentation
       4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 					               Kenneth			Vicky
       4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 					                  Kenneth			Kelly
       4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 			            Kenneth			Kenneth
       4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 				            Kenneth			Kenneth
       
(5/5)  Group Project

111

[but there was half of all things being sold at a chance] Kenneth Larot Yamat
[of a more than twice was the changes made to the beginning and] @KennethLYamat
[here we all were and there we all turned out to be] · [where you can test it]
[you can run the program but the changes can't be made to the original] 15m
I don't think it was a Freudian Slip. I think it was Rhetorical Senility. 
Ranchero Dressing Jorge is pointing out that we can't demonize Bush for 
ousting Saddam, and praise puma pussy Pelosi for propping up Zelenskyy.
[changes that were sold on the blorgandicola shagimario] Kenneth Larot Yamat
[but they came across as total jerks when we talked to them] @KennethLYamat
[so we had to ask them what was going on] · [and why they were being such]
[jerks, we all knew what the answer was and we knew how life goes on anyway.] 3h

it's not a huge problem, 
and it's not really a big
deal, but there was a dish

where the fish
were located and they 
swam around because

they were alive! and
they were golden in 
color! because they were
GOLD FISH! HA! HA! HA!

I'm still really tired. It's less than it was before. 
I'm less tired that I was before. I'm unemployed. I filed 
for unemployment. My account was locked, and, there seems 
to be no way of settling this issue other than by calling 
in. There was the unpaid wages issue from the cleaning 
company that I worked for, that's an issue that's being worked out.

112

how were they all situations
where new situations became
old situations? there were new

circumstances that were highly
unusual and were circumstances
that we did not understand all

that well, we told people that
we were changing into new 
people and our ways were new ways.

113

how often did we see what we were
eating and it turned out to be actual
food where the people were eating 
and the changes were being made but
they were not on the changes that
were being made to the original draft!

I still can't seem to get very much done. 
I'm tired. super tired. I don't know if 
this is heat fatigue, or masturbation induced 
fatigue. I've noticed that I've been getting fatter, 
with all due respect to the girth of my penis, 
as well as my waist.

114

There you do. I think that I did it.
So I guess at some point I'll have to 
upgrade the services I use for my pet 
project, known as Chestnut + Hazel.  

theres Google Workspace, AWS, and 
Microsoft 365 or Azure or something.

I haven't figured out what to do about 
this. I don't want to spend any more 
money on this than I'm currently spending.
and.

my domain doesn't expire for a while, so. 
I might not be in the market for an upgrade 
for about 10 years.

anyway. I have the submissions@chestnutandhazel.com 
email set up. so that's done. I guess I can go back 
to whatever I was doing.
New Page
New sheet of paper.

There is one other possible way to deal with this 
email thing. and. it's an approach that I really don't 
want to take. I want to do this the right way. You know. 
the way that is the longest and hardest way possible.

the easiest thing to do would be to have submissions@chestnutandhazel 
redirect to info@chestnutandhazel, rather than set up 
submissions@chestnutandhazel as a stand alone email. or 
i mean, setting up submissions@chestnutandhazel all on it's own.
alright let's see. I think that I did it.

115

MIS 764

       4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges
       4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems
       4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:
       4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work
       4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 		
       4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 		
       4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 		
       4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 							

(4/28) Module 4 											                     Group Paper

       4.1.0 The Landscape of Emerging Technologies				      Vicky
       4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems		         Vicky
       4.1.2 Editorial Emergent Tech and Organizing			         Vicky
       4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:						               Vicky
       4.1.4 Quantum Computing and Information Systems		         Vicky


       4.2.0 The Changing Nature of Work						            Kelly
       4.2.1 Editorial Future of Work Organizations Society		      Kelly
       4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work			         Kelly
       4.2.3 Mental Health and Information Technology		            Kelly
       4.2.4 Waging war from remote cubicles				               Kelly

(4/25) 4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges 			         Kenneth			Group Presentation
       4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 					               Kenneth			Vicky
       4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 					                  Kenneth			Kelly
       4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 			            Kenneth			Kenneth
       4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 				            Kenneth			Kenneth
       
(5/5)  Group Project

116

I only sporadically read my old posts. I have to deal with the same 
kind of garbage over and over. but this is something that caught my
eye. I gave up on dating. online dating especially as well, but I 
kind of gave up on that a while ago.

I have this idea about going back to school. Maybe not for business. 
I'm not sure, if business is really something that I'm interested in, or, what.
This is a nightmare.

I remember one thing about using Bumble, the dating app, and it was the feeling 
that I should, go to graduate school or something.

117

My final paycheck from Amazon should take me through until the end of June, 
and then I have to start taking money out of my fucking investment accounts.

Let's see? work. I'm just so fucking tired. I don't know. I have no one that 
I can ask for a letter of recommendation. Maybe that's not entirely true. 
Maybe it's only half true. I'm not sure.

There was an article in the Atlantic about professional decline, and, maybe 
my career as a blue collar worker is kind of over. I'm just so fucking tired 
all the time.

I'm just tired all the time. Maybe working in a physically demanding role is 
a younger person's role anyway.

I filed for unemployment. My account was disabled. I called in. I registered 
for work. I completed a resume.

I have to look into applying for college. My first choice is still UT Arlington, 
because it's within walking distance of my residence. With so much uncertainty 
in my life right now, I have to make sure that I can walk to work, or walk to 
school, or whatever.

I was going to donate some clothes, but, I couldn't figure out how to do that, 
I wasn't sure if the donation station was open or not, or what time it was open, 
or if it was closed, or staffed, or what.

118

This is a nightmare. I'm trying to fix my contact gadget for my blog. Jesus. 
Nightmare. I forgot how to do this.
This is a notepad.
Nightmare.
Vocabulary
alias - screen name - avatar - pseudonym 
Okay, so I fixed part of the problem

119

MIS 764

       4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges
       4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems
       4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:
       4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work
       4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 		
       4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 		
       4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 		
       4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 							

(4/28) Module 4 											                     Group Paper

       4.1.0 The Landscape of Emerging Technologies				      Vicky
       4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems		         Vicky
       4.1.2 Editorial Emergent Tech and Organizing			         Vicky
       4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:						               Vicky
       4.1.4 Quantum Computing and Information Systems		         Vicky


       4.2.0 The Changing Nature of Work						            Kelly
       4.2.1 Editorial Future of Work Organizations Society		      Kelly
       4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work			         Kelly
       4.2.3 Mental Health and Information Technology		            Kelly
       4.2.4 Waging war from remote cubicles				               Kelly

(4/25) 4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges 			         Kenneth			Group Presentation
       4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 					               Kenneth			Vicky
       4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 					                  Kenneth			Kelly
       4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 			            Kenneth			Kenneth
       4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 				            Kenneth			Kenneth
       
(5/5)  Group Project

120

what the hell is all of this garbage? Like over and over I keep coming
across old twitter posts that I've posted somewhere else and this is
garbage! There are other accounts that I think that I need to track
down and delete. This. that. this that or whatever. or whatever and ever.

121

4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges
4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems
4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:

4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work		
4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 		
4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 		

4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 
4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 							

Exploratory innovation as a key turn-around / pivot strategy
reappropriation of existing IP catalog as an ancillary strategy

Case studies of failed companies, case studies of notable turn-arounds
Examples of possible turn-arounds

We will create a company called
the Victoria Saab Special Purpouse Acquisition Company

special purpose acquisition company

Russell 3000
Travel + Leisure Co
We are co-owners of the Victoria Saab & Co. Special Purpose Acquisition Corporation. 
We will look at companies that we can buy and turn around. Smallest companies on the 
Russell 3000, for example: Travel + Leisure Co (TNL) and create a VR Headset travel 
package, that could also be reappropriated in various additional ways: licensed to 
schools as a geography and history learning product, MMORPG travel and second-life 
kind of VR Game.

122

chickens were cooked in the same
oven that that ducks were cooked 
in and it didn't make a difference 
that all of the same people cooked 
all of the same meats inside all of
the same ovens. It didn't make even 
the smallest difference!

123

We are co-owners of the Victoria Saab & Co. Special 
Purpose Acquisition Corporation. We will look at companies 
that we can buy and turn around. Smallest companies on the 
Russell 3000, for example: Travel + Leisure Co (TNL) and 
create a VR Headset travel package, that could also be 
reappropriated in various additional ways: licensed to 
schools as a geography and history learning product, MMORPG 
travel and second-life kind of VR Game.

You know. I'll just be upfront about it: now that I have a student 
loan balance. I AM ALL FOR TOTAL STUDENT LOAN FORGIVENESS! anyway.

The reason I'm not entirely in favor of student loan forgiveness is this: 
education expenses receive a tax credit, and a portion of student loan 
payments are tax deductible, so anyone receiving student loan forgiveness 
is triple dipping at the tax-payer's expense.

124

Kenneth 
Topic: 
intro/motivation: 
Exploratory innovation as a key turn-around / pivot strategy
Affordance level reappropriation of existing IP catalog as an ancillary strategy
Lit reviews
Case studies of failed companies
Case studies of notable turn-arounds
Examples of possible turn-arounds
theory/conceptualization 
A company turn-around / pivot project is similar to a fixer-upper project in real estate
If we want to do last part:
We are co-owners of the Victoria Saab & Co. Special Purpose Acquisition Corporation. 
We will look at companies that we can buy and turn around. Smallest companies on the Russell 
3000, for example: Travel + Leisure Co (TNL) or Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Co (HMHC) and create 
a VR Headset travel package, that could also be reappropriated in various additional ways: 
licensed to schools as a geography and history learning product, MMORPG travel and second-life kind of VR Game.


125

there were all of these new things changing all the 
time and there was so much turmoil that made things
super strange and eating all the hamburgers was part 

of the problems that were open to Kenneth Larot Yamat
discussion by the changers and chargers @KennethLYamat
there was also something that made all of us unhappy
I don't know if I should be looking for an employer or 6h
Another reason is that many employers offer tuition and 

education reimbursement incentives, and it's not really a 
huge indignity for anyone from an economically disadvantaged 
group, for example, the proletariat, to bag groceries, or pour 
coffee, or pack boxes, or count cash.
With Distinction is how many of us would say we are in

I'm going to leave the unemployment stuff alone for now. 
I was offered a position with AO Smith, and I accepted.
I'll forget about the social security disability stuff as well.
I think I finished my FAFSA stuff. Well. I did finish my FAFSA stuff.

126

I'm setting up additional development environemnt stuff for my MIS 768
course. and I think it's done. no. it actually has several more steps
invloved. Kenneth Larot Yamat. and I'm already kind of tired. but.
now I think that the whole process is finally done. @KennethLYamat.

127

So that was all to set up a development environment. or configure the
existin development environment to handle GUI developments. 2m and it
is done. Mao Zedong was going to lead the Wanton Assault team into a 
verloren. what the hell else do I have to do? I actually have to dig
into week ten course material. The class assignment is already late.

hoop charge at the Wehrmacht's left flank, then rear guard, but he got 
bogged down fighting the Imperial Sushi Masters and the Prince of the 
Peking Duck Dynasty: Chiang Kai-shek! #VladimirPutin #Stalingrad there
are a number of reasons why I think that the summer and the fall 
semesters will go better than this spring semester. Kenneth Larot Yamat.

128

Kenneth 
Topic: turn-arounds and pivots, leveraging organizational courage for high-risk 
innovation as an alternative to the conventional approach of distressed asset fire sales and mass-layoffs
intro/motivation: 
Exploratory innovation as a key turn-around / pivot strategy
Affordance level reappropriation of existing IP catalog as an ancillary strategy
Lit reviews
Case studies of failed companies
Case studies of notable turn-arounds & pivots
Twinkie turn-around
Supply chain and distribution innovations
Product chemistry innovations
Examples of possible turn-arounds
theory/conceptualization 
A company turn-around / pivot project is similar to a rehabilitation & renovation (fixer-upper) project in real estate
If we want to do last part:
We are co-owners of the Victoria Saab & Co. Special Purpose Acquisition Corporation. We will look at 
companies that we can buy and turn around. Smallest companies on the Russell 3000, for example: Travel + 
Leisure Co (TNL) or Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Company (HMHC) and create a VR Headset travel package, that 
could also be reappropriated in various additional ways: licensed to schools as a geography and history 
learning product, MMORPG travel and second-life kind of VR Game.

129

4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges

4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems

4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:

4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work					

4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 		

4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 		

4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 		

4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge

(4/28) Module 4 										Group Paper

4.1.0 The Landscape of Emerging Technologies				Vicky
4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems		Vicky
4.1.2 Editorial Emergent Tech and Organizing			Vicky
4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:						Vicky
4.1.4 Quantum Computing and Information Systems		Vicky

4.2. The Changing Nature of Work						Kelly
4.2.1 Editorial Future of Work Organizations Society		Kelly
4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work			Kelly
4.2.3 Mental Health and Information Technology		Kelly
4.2.4 Waging war from remote cubicles				Kelly

(4/25) 4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges 			Kenneth			Group Presentation
4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 					Kenneth			Vicky
4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 					Kenneth			Kelly
4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 			Kenneth			Kenneth
4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 				Kenneth			Kenneth

(5/5) Group Project

References
Rao, D. (2024, March 26). Mastering Pivots & Turnarounds: #1 Lesson From Under Armour, Hertz & Apple. Forbes. 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/dileeprao/2024/03/26/mastering-pivots--turnarounds-1-lesson-from-under-armour-hertz--apple/?sh=2ebc19f5afae
America’s Most Innovative Companies. (2024). Fortune. 
https://fortune.com/ranking/americas-most-innovative-companies/

Rao, D. (2024, March 26). Mastering Pivots & Turnarounds: #1 Lesson From Under Armour, Hertz & Apple. Forbes. 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/dileeprao/2024/03/26/mastering-pivots--turnarounds-1-lesson-from-under-armour-hertz--apple/?sh=2ebc19f5afae

https://www.forbes.com/sites/dileeprao/2024/03/26/mastering-pivots--turnarounds-1-lesson-from-under-armour-hertz--apple/?sh=2ebc19f5afae

130

There are only a few more things that need to be done for MIS 764. @KennethLYamat three assignments left to turn in. For MIS 768.
There are a bunch of things that I really need to get done. what a nightmare. I came across something I find kind of annoying.

Nightmare. I'm tired. an old friend asked me to hang out tonight. we met up. and went to 7-11. waste of time. i think that she was happy 
to see me, and i was happy to see her, but i have all this other shit that i have to take care of. even though i'm not working now, and it 
will be a while before i go back to work.

17m and the annoying thing is that there is a social media influencer using the name chestnut & hazel as a page. annoying. #vladimirputin!
I fought for the Allies at Stalingrad as part of the Fried Rice Auxiliaries of the Red Army, Ho Chi Minh and Emiliano Zapata were my Comrades 
in Arms, but the Soviets had logistical problems then, as now, and we were given only one rifle for the three of us. 22h

I remember when I set up Prospectus Media Group, I guess I would later come across a company that claimed to be using that name for a while, 
so I just stopped using it, but at this point, Chestnut + Hazel is a real business. so. #vladimirputin Kenneth Larot Yamat @KennethLYamat

131

think of how the things
that you've seen are now
different from what was
originally there
and now how what is currently
here is different from what was
previously here and what
was originally here and what
could be a new thing and what
can be the next thing that
is here and what there are
everywhere
and what there are when there
are things that you think that
are meant to be seen and what
are things that are meant to 
be discovered

but i don't really know if i really want to deal with ONEQ. There is really a 
whole lot of bull shit on a lot of these total market index funds, and i really 
don't want to deal with a lot of them. stupid. stupid. I know. there's just a 
lot of shitty ones on the index. zombie ticker symbols on the index. some of 
them never fall off the index. well. i don't know. a lot of them are garbage.

I did manage to take care of a few things with my old. With my 401(k). and that 
was kind of nice. I don't know. what else to do. there were a few student loan, 
student aid, and student grant related stuff for school. I don't recall. exactly 
what the deadline is for the application period. I want to say that it is.

132

I don't remember what was originally here
but whatever it was, I guess it must have been
interesting. There were a lot of pictures and
screenshots of this or that. I don't know what
to do with all of these photographs I'm amassing.

I took of all of the photographs, and saved them.
but I don't know what to do eventually. Where
to put them or post them. @KennethLYamat

I'll often think about things
that I really don't want to remember
and how everything is a headache
and everything is a pain in the neck
and how things sometimes get nicer
and things sometimes get worse.

If Vladimir Putin thinks he's going to win: 
he's got another thing coming! 23h
Kenneth Larot Yamat. what I really want most of the
time is independence and autonomy. like. the ability
to do, what I want to do.
Do you approve of Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor?

I'll often think about things
that I really don't want to remember
and how everything is a headache
and everything is a pain in the neck
and how things sometimes get nicer
and things sometimes get worse.

the blades of the fan
move around in a circular
motion. I watch them move 
around in a
circular motion, but I'm not 

able to determine if they are 
moving clockwise, or counter-clockwise
I just don't know. I really don't know
about all that because they
are moving faster than I can see.
UTA: Transcripts

() Silver Creek
(x) San Jose City College
() Evergreen Valley College
() Ohlone College
(x) San Jose State University
() University of Nevada Las Vegas
() University of Missouri Kanas City
() Emeritus Institute of Management

133

these dreams * are like a chain * tying together * different other dreams
and = Yes 1% = No 0% = 1 votes - and maybe I told you a thing or two about
how changes in the stream of consciousness approach to writing poetry would
change how all of us think about what it means to think using our brains.

I'm extremely tired, but I always find myself staying up late. I'm really
tired, and I still haven't dug into my course material for MIS 768. It's 
already Thursday. but there happens to be a new way of doing things. and 
the old way of doing things has turned out to be very wrong and not right.

In fact, I want to clerk for Justice Sotomayor, and when I'm on the U.S. 
Supreme Court, I'll opine conservative views with more bravado than Scalia 
AND take Justice Sotomayor to the Ballet! Kenneth Larot Yamat @KennethLYamat

134

Truth is. I don't even know where to begin. In terms of getting back into
the swing of things if d. getting back into the swing of things in terms 
of doing course material for MIS 768.

4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges
4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems
4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:
4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work		
4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 		
4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 		
4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 		
4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenges

(4/28) Module 4 										               Group Paper

4.1.0 The Landscape of Emerging Technologies				      Vicky
4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems		      Vicky
4.1.2 Editorial Emergent Tech and Organizing			         Vicky
4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:						               Vicky
4.1.4 Quantum Computing and Information Systems		         Vicky

4.2. The Changing Nature of Work						            Kelly
4.2.1 Editorial Future of Work Organizations Society		   Kelly
4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work			         Kelly
4.2.3 Mental Health and Information Technology		         Kelly
4.2.4 Waging war from remote cubicles				            Kelly

(4/25) 4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges 			Kenneth			Group Presentation
4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 					               Kenneth			Vicky
4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 					               Kenneth			Kelly
4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 			         Kenneth			Kenneth
4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenges 				         Kenneth			Kenneth

(5/5) Group Project

I'm really reluctant to say. that. I'm really reluctant to attribute. I don't. I 
can't just drop everything and. study. 42m Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered.
I really don't know what to do. by being denied communion in accordance with canon.

135

law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being baptized as a cultist
of Christianity & Company Incorporated, PLC Société anonyme. so. You know. It's like that.
Kenneth Larot Yamat @KennethLYamat 49m Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being.

So what is it? I don't really know. denied communion in accordance with canon law 915.
I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being baptized an acolyte of Christianity.
oh man. well. what was it? my brain is fried. & Company Incorporated, PLC (Société anonyme)
Kenneth Larot Yamat . so. You know. It's like that . @KennethLYamat 51m Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't.

pain of a kind
of a kind of pleasure
of a kind of pain 

there was a new of a 
kind of an old 
of a kind of

you see, here is how it works:
when you think of a nice thing
it becomes a new kind of thing

in your mind but when you see
a thing that seems new but is actually
old there are old things that are amazing.

One thing that created a bit of anxiety for 
me was the Chase Checking Account glitch where 
payments were being processed twice.

I actually didn't notice the issue at first.

When payday hit, I saw that my checking account 
balance went up, but not as much as I expected, 
especially considering how much overtime I worked 
that week. I figured that I had a bunch of outgoing 
payments and transfers since I usually schedule 
outgoing payments or transfers on a payday, and 
that it was simply due to that, and I really didn't 
look into it any further.

The other reason no alarm bells went off in my mind 
is because the transaction that was processed twice 
was approximately the same amount as a few transfers 
and payments that I was sure were going to process 
around that time that I made, so I really just thought 
that it was the payments and transfers that I made.

I was nevertheless stressed out because I started to feel 
that maybe I didn't really plan correctly. or something. 
Anyway, I saw a prompt by Chase about the double transaction 
glitch, and, what do you know, it turns out that I was a victim 
of the Chase Double Payment Processing glitch.

136

in so many ways. things are. where they. would have been.
and when the sidewalk turns into a streen and turns into pavement.

09 12 15 22 05 08 05 18 01 19 19 09 23 71 83 10 03 39 10

09 06 21 03 11 05 04 21 16 20 15 04 01 25 15 26 23 32 12

07 15 04 19 01 22 05 13 05 48 78 95 65 15 45 01 05 09 65       

05 18 25 14 18 33 20 18 42 15 18 81 10 19 13 95 65 65 45

08 09 20 20 09 14 07 01 14 01 12 12 20 09 13 05 12 15 23

half of all. the oranges in the bin. have been changed for the better.
they have been changed into orange juice and juiced and all of that YEAH!

137

I still haven't 
fallen asleep and I still
have not. fallen. asleep.
at all and I have not.
fallen asleep.

I think I came home
at around eleven-thirty
at night, and right now it
is almost five-thirty
and, well. I still. have not.
fallen asleep.

138

there are
all these
things that
are making

me tired
and I am
tired and 
I have not
fallen asleep
yet and I don't

know if it will
or will not ever 
happen.

139

"Till, after cloying the gazettes with cant, The age discovers he is not the true one; Of such as these I should not care to vaunt"
from don juan by lord byron. My main short term goal is to get my credit cards paid off before the end of August. This has been.
I was thinking about this. I thought it was filling the gazettes with can't, but is can't different or the same from cant?

I'm reading this old post about paying off my credit cards. I think. what was it. It was that. it was after that manic episode
just before leaving Dallas. I ran up my credit cards. Spent nearly all my money. I want t. I almost wanted to say it happened
the other way around. my goal since the beginning of the year, and I think it's a realistic goal. I want to say it happened the
other way around, that I spent all my money and then ran up my credit cards. but I would actually never do it that way. I would

actually run up my credit cards first before spending all my money. The end of August is when my student loan repayments start,
anyway. I think I remember this. and I don't want to be crushed by student loans and credit cards at the same time. anyway. I 
remember this. I ran up my credit cards. spent all my money, got into graduate school at UTA, dropped out, and then I came back 
to Las Vegas. I actually never thought I would be going back to school when I came back to Las Vegas, or maybe I did, I don't know.
I often oscillate mentally between really wanting to, and considering it not ever going to happen. I oscillate mentally between
thinking it's something that's just simply never going to happen, and thinking that it's my only option. Strange. Well, I wonder. 

140

if someone is helping me out here, but, who knows. I want to say someone is obviously helping me out, because something kind of.
funny just happened. I think that there is a difference between something being hard or difficult to do. and something being. you.
know. unnecessarily challenging. I want to write something here, but I'm not sure what to write, and it's not for a lack of things.

This is acutally a change of where the oranges are. where the apples are. where the other things to eat are. Have you eaten yet?
I know that you have not eaten anything in the longest time! to write, it's just that I have no idea. what I should write about, 
considering the number of things that I could write about. what a nightmare. I don't have any money to indulge in that sort of 
thing anyway.

15 75 75 66 20 20 28 20 00 15 06 05 03

19 09 58 08 68 01 17 06 53 65 55 22 33 

19 00 03 19 36 12 11 39 97 46 41 25 23

19 09 00 58 08 68 15 48 78 96 15 26 35

19 00 03 19 36 20 11 39 97 46 48 59 32

19 09 05 08 10 08 06 08 32 64 15 54 78

19 09 05 08 00 08 06 08 01 17 06 05 03

19 00 19 36 19 10 03 19 36 20 11 39 97

11 68 02 00 18 68 19 25 18 68 18 72 46

17 77 93 00 11 00 19 03 19 08 19 03 19

03 15 13 05 15 14 19 28 08 48 91 23 65 

19 41 02 80 00 18 22 18 36 18 20 18 35

44 31 11 22 88 80 12 23 09 12 34 12 37

03 15 13 05 15 14 19 28 52 36 25 15 21

05 19 25 03 17 95 03 15 13 17 95 45 63

05 01 00 04 15 15 00 00 38 01 01 00 06 

even be bothered by being denied communion in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the Holy See by being 
baptized an acolyte of Christianity & Company Incorporated, PLC. so. You know. It's like that. Kenneth Larot Yamat @KennethLYamat.
Yeah Nancy, I wouldn't even be bothered by being denied communion in accordance with canon law 915. I was actually Excommunicated from the
I don't even know why I have all. or why I had all these twitter posts for Nancy Pelosi. I really don't even want to go to class today.
Okay: Twitter Blue or Twitter for Professionals? Here's the thing: there is a Twitter Parody Policy for Professional Accounts, and I've never.
I really don't even want to go to class today, but. I'm sure my mood will change later. One thing about being on campus is that. I remember
not being able to log in. There is like a real problem with the internet connection on campus, the wi-fi as well as the cell internet connection.
and, with everything requiring 2 factor authentication of one kind or another, it's, I can't even use the campus computers. I can't really
get any work done on campus as a result. I can't really get any work done at home some times either. so. You know. It's like that. Inc, PLC. 

141

Holy See by being baptized an acolyte of Christianity & Co. 58m Kenneth Larot Yamat @KennethLYamat 1h figured this out, how is a factious
remarks focused account different from parody account? and at what point have I crossed the line? Well. I submitted my audit request for
MIS 768. but I almost also audited MIS 764.

Sonnet in Java by Kenneth Larot Yamat dba Chestnut + Hazel (2024) 
 
I think about how things are going for
me at the moment and I feel nothing
but frustration and stress anger and more
at the beginning I wanted something
 
now I'm just not sure what to look forward
to and now this is the time I lose my
way and these times these difficult and hard
times where things aren't really clear and I lie
 
in bed staring at the ceiling thinking
that something in my mind will clarify
nothing does and I continue sinking
into this mental vortex

Sonnet in Java by Kenneth Larot Yamat dba Chestnut + Hazel (2024) 
 
I think about how things are going for
me at the moment and I feel nothing
but frustration and stress anger and more
at the beginning I wanted something
 
now I'm just not sure what to look forward
to and now this is the time I lose my
way and these times these difficult and hard
times where things aren't really clear and I lie
 
in bed staring at the ceiling thinking
that something in my mind will clarify
nothing does and I continue sinking
into this mental vortex down just shy
 
of hitting the ocean floor where the squid
and jellyfish and octopuses lived

142

Kenneth Larot Yamat. but I think all of these things how things
never seem to be going right now for me. @KennethLYamat. 3h The
Alexander Peresvet laser weapon is named after Paris Alexander,
the Trojan Prince who, resembling a well known actor, had a laser
sharp look that caused uteruses to tremble in ecstasy and queef
with exalted delight. Kenneth Larot Yamat @KennethLYamat nightmare.

4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges
4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems
4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:
4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work		
4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 		
4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 		
4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 		
4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenges

(4/28) Module 4 										               Group Paper

4.1.0 The Landscape of Emerging Technologies				      Vicky
4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems		      Vicky
4.1.2 Editorial Emergent Tech and Organizing			         Vicky
4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:						               Vicky
4.1.4 Quantum Computing and Information Systems		         Vicky

4.2. The Changing Nature of Work						            Kelly
4.2.1 Editorial Future of Work Organizations Society		   Kelly
4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work			         Kelly
4.2.3 Mental Health and Information Technology		         Kelly
4.2.4 Waging war from remote cubicles				            Kelly

(4/25) 4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges 			Kenneth			Group Presentation
4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 					               Kenneth			Vicky
4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 					               Kenneth			Kelly
4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 			         Kenneth			Kenneth
4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenges 				         Kenneth			Kenneth

(5/5) Group Project

143

Kenneth 

Topic: 

turn-arounds and pivots: leveraging organizational courage for high-risk innovation 
as an alternative to the conventional approach of distressed asset fire sales and mass-layoffs

intro/motivation: 

Exploratory innovation as a key turn-around / pivot strategy
Affordance level reappropriation of existing IP catalog as an ancillary strategy

Lit reviews:

Case studies of failed companies
Case studies of notable turn-arounds & pivots
Twinkie turn-around
Supply chain and distribution innovations
Product chemistry innovations
Examples of possible turn-arounds

theory/conceptualization 

A company turn-around / pivot project is similar to a rehabilitation & renovation (fixer-upper / flipper) project in real estate

If we want to do last part:

We are co-owners of the Vicky Saab & Co. Special Purpose Acquisition Corporation. We will look at companies that we can 
buy and turn around. Smallest companies on the Russell 3000, for example: Travel + Leisure Co. (TNL) or Houghton Mifflin 
Harcourt Co. (HMHC) and create a VR Headset travel package, that could also be reappropriated in various additional ways: 
licensed to schools as a geography and history learning product, or a MMORPG travel and second-life kind of VR Game.

144

The best way for Finland and Sweden to get an inch in on Erdogan is by challenging him to a game of Bakugan, and winning, and 
that's Bakugan, not backgammon. 4h. Kenneth Larot Yamat. @KennethLYamat 4h I'm really frustrated with everything right now. in
a major way to be honest.

4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges

4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems

4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:

4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work					

4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 		

4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 		

4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 		

4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge

(4/28) Module 4 										Group Paper

4.1.0 The Landscape of Emerging Technologies				Vicky
4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems		Vicky
4.1.2 Editorial Emergent Tech and Organizing			Vicky
4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:						Vicky
4.1.4 Quantum Computing and Information Systems		Vicky

4.2. The Changing Nature of Work						Kelly
4.2.1 Editorial Future of Work Organizations Society		Kelly
4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work			Kelly
4.2.3 Mental Health and Information Technology		Kelly
4.2.4 Waging war from remote cubicles				Kelly

(4/25) 4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges 			Kenneth			Group Presentation
4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 					Kenneth			Vicky
4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 					Kenneth			Kelly
4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 			Kenneth			Kenneth
4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 				Kenneth			Kenneth

(5/5) Term Project

Kenneth 
Topic: turn-arounds and pivots: leveraging organizational courage for high-risk innovation as an 
alternative to the conventional approach of distressed asset fire sales and mass-layoffs
intro/motivation: 
Exploratory innovation as a key turn-around / pivot strategy
Affordance level reappropriation of existing IP catalog as an ancillary strategy
Lit reviews
Case studies of failed companies
Case studies of notable turn-arounds & pivots
Twinkie turn-around
Supply chain and distribution innovations
Product chemistry innovations
Examples of possible turn-arounds
theory/conceptualization 
A company turn-around / pivot project is similar to a rehabilitation & renovation (fixer-upper) project in real estate
If we want to do last part:
We are co-owners of the Vicky Saab & Co. Special Purpose Acquisition Corporation. We will look at companies 
that we can buy and turn around. Smallest companies on the Russell 3000, for example: Travel + Leisure Co. 
(TNL) or Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Co. (HMHC) and create a VR Headset travel package, that could also be 
reappropriated in various additional ways: licensed to schools as a geography and history learning product, 
or a MMORPG travel and second-life kind of VR Game.

Applications for Mergers & Acquisitions, Portfolio Management, and Equity Index Development

References
Rao, D. (2024, March 26). Mastering Pivots & Turnarounds: #1 Lesson From Under Armour, Hertz & Apple. Forbes. 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/dileeprao/2024/03/26/mastering-pivots--turnarounds-1-lesson-from-under-armour-hertz--apple/?sh=2ebc19f5afae
America’s Most Innovative Companies. (2024). Fortune. https://fortune.com/ranking/americas-most-innovative-companies/

Patnaik, D. (2024, March 24). Is It Time To Rethink Your Innovation Strategy? Forbes. Retrieved from 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/devpatnaik/2024/03/24/is-it-time-to-rethink-your-innovation-strategy/?sh=7090736f440a

Chapman, M., & The Associated Press. (2024, March 28). Home Depot’s largest acquisition ever is an 
$18.25 billion bet on the housing market’s severe shortage of new homes. Fortune. Retrieved from 
https://fortune.com/2024/03/28/home-depot-acquisition-srs-distribution-18-25-billion-housing-market/

145       

fire. The best way for Finland and Sweden to earn the respect of Erdogan is by challenging. not backgammon.

Applications for Mergers & Acquisitions, Portfolio Management, and Equity Index Development

References
Chatterjee, S., Moody, G. D., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2021). The nonlinear influence of harmonious information 
technology affordance on organisational innovation. Information Systems Journal, 31(3), 294–322. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12311
Chatterjee, S., Moody, G., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2015). Strategic relevance of organizational virtues enabled 
by information technology in organizational innovation. Journal of Management Information Systems, 32(3), 158–196. https://doi.org/10.1080/07421222.2015.1099180

Chatterjee, S., Moody, G., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2020). Information technology and organizational innovation: 
Harmonious information technology affordance and courage-based actualization. Journal of Strategic Information Systems, 29, 101596. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsis.2020.101596
Rao, D. (2024, March 26). Mastering Pivots & Turnarounds: #1 Lesson From Under Armour, Hertz & Apple. Forbes. 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/dileeprao/2024/03/26/mastering-pivots--turnarounds-1-lesson-from-under-armour-hertz--apple/?sh=2ebc19f5afae
America’s Most Innovative Companies. (2024). Fortune. https://fortune.com/ranking/americas-most-innovative-companies/

Patnaik, D. (2024, March 24). Is It Time To Rethink Your Innovation Strategy? Forbes. Retrieved from 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/devpatnaik/2024/03/24/is-it-time-to-rethink-your-innovation-strategy/?sh=7090736f440a

Chapman, M., & The Associated Press. (2024, March 28). Home Depot’s largest acquisition ever is an $18.25 billion bet on the housing market’s severe shortage of new homes. 
Fortune. Retrieved from https://fortune.com/2024/03/28/home-depot-acquisition-srs-distribution-18-25-billion-housing-market/
Li, Y., and T. Chi. 2013. Venture capitalists’ decision to withdraw: The role of portfolio configuration from a real options lens. Strategic Management Journal 34: 1351-1366.
Li, Y. & J. Mahoney. 2011. When Are Venture Capital Projects Initiated? Journal of Business Venturing. 26(2): 239-254.
Tong, T. & Y. Li. 2011. Real Options and Investment Mode Decision: Evidence from Corporate Venture Capital and Acquisition. Organization Science. 22(3): 659-674
Courtney, C., Dutta, S., and Li, Y. 2017. Resolving information asymmetry: Signaling and crowdfunding success. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice 41(2): 265-290.
Liu, Y., Y. Li, X. Hao, and Y. Zhang. 2019. Narcissism and entrepreneurial learning from Failure. Journal of Business Venturing. 34 (3), 496-512
Li, Y., S. Zahra and S. Lan. 2017. Heterogeneity in New Venture Formation Rates across Nations: The Schumpeterian and Institutional Economics Views. Entrepreneurial Finance: 
Managerial and Policy Implications. 1-35. Lead article
Li, Y., and E. Yao. 2019. All ties are not created equal: Institutional equity ties, IPO performance, and market growth of new ventures. In D. Cumming & S. Johan (ed.). 
Oxford Handbook of IPO
Wang, E. T. G., Hu, H.-f., & Hu, P. J.-H. (2013). Examining the role of information technology in cultivating firms’ dynamic marketing capabilities. Information & 
Management, 50(6), 336-343. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.im.2013.04.007
Randolph, R. V., Hu, H.-f., & Silvernail, K. D. (2020). Better the devil you know: Inter-organizational information technology and network social capital in 
coopetition networks. Information & Management. Advance online publication. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.im.2020.103344
Randolph, R. V., Hu, H., Silvernail, K. (2018). Knowledge Networking and Coopetition: The Role of Shared Technology in Promoting Goal Convergence. 2018 Western 
Academy of Management Conference, 59 9.
Hu, H.-F., Moore, W. L., & Hu, P. J. (2024). Incorporating user perceptions and product attributes in software product design and evaluation. Journal of 
Information Technology, 36(2), 123-137.
Chatterjee, S., Chakraborty, S., Fulk, K., & Lowry, P. B. (2024). The role of dissonant relational multiplexity in information system implementation 
failures. Journal of the Association for Information Systems (JAIS). Advance online publication. https://aisel.aisnet.org/jais/vol25/iss2/1/
Chatterjee, S., Sarker, S., Lee, M. J., Xiao, X., & Elbanna, A. (2021). A possible conceptualization of the information systems (IS) artifact: A general 
systems theory perspective. Information Systems Journal, 31(4), 550-578. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12292

146

4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges

4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems

4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:

4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work					

4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 		

4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 		

4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 		

4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge

(4/28) Module 4 										Group Paper

4.1.0 The Landscape of Emerging Technologies				Vicky
4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems		Vicky
4.1.2 Editorial Emergent Tech and Organizing			Vicky
4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:						Vicky
4.1.4 Quantum Computing and Information Systems		Vicky

4.2. The Changing Nature of Work						Kelly
4.2.1 Editorial Future of Work Organizations Society		Kelly
4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work			Kelly
4.2.3 Mental Health and Information Technology		Kelly
4.2.4 Waging war from remote cubicles				Kelly

(4/25) 4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges 			Kenneth			Group Presentation
4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 					Kenneth			Vicky
4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 					Kenneth			Kelly
4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 			Kenneth			Kenneth
4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 				Kenneth			Kenneth

(5/5) Term Project

Kenneth 
Topic: turn-arounds and pivots: leveraging organizational courage for high-risk innovation as an 
alternative to the conventional approach of distressed asset sales and mass-layoffs
intro/motivation: 
Exploratory innovation as a key turn-around / pivot strategy
Affordance level reappropriation of existing IP catalog as an ancillary strategy
Lit reviews
Case studies of failed companies
Case studies of notable turn-arounds & pivots
Twinkie turn-around
Supply chain and distribution innovations
Product chemistry innovations
Examples of possible turn-arounds
theory/conceptualization 
A company turn-around / pivot project is similar to a rehabilitation & renovation (fixer-upper) project in real estate
If we want to do last part:
We are co-owners of the Vicky Saab & Co. Special Purpose Acquisition Corporation. We will look at companies that we can buy and turn around. 
Smallest companies on the Russell 3000, for example: Travel + Leisure Co. (TNL) or Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Co. (HMHC) and create a VR Headset 
travel package, that could also be reappropriated in various additional ways: licensed to schools as a geography and history learning product, 
or a MMORPG travel and second-life kind of VR Game.

Applications for Mergers & Acquisitions, Portfolio Management, and Equity Index Development

References
Chatterjee, S., Moody, G. D., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2021). The nonlinear influence of harmonious information technology 
affordance on organisational innovation. Information Systems Journal, 31(3), 294–322. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12311
Chatterjee, S., Moody, G., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2015). Strategic relevance of organizational virtues enabled by information 
technology in organizational innovation. Journal of Management Information Systems, 32(3), 158–196. https://doi.org/10.1080/07421222.2015.1099180

Chatterjee, S., Moody, G., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2020). Information technology and organizational innovation: Harmonious 
information technology affordance and courage-based actualization. Journal of Strategic Information Systems, 29, 101596. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsis.2020.101596
Rao, D. (2024, March 26). Mastering Pivots & Turnarounds: #1 Lesson From Under Armour, Hertz & Apple. Forbes. 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/dileeprao/2024/03/26/mastering-pivots--turnarounds-1-lesson-from-under-armour-hertz--apple/?sh=2ebc19f5afae
America’s Most Innovative Companies. (2024). Fortune. https://fortune.com/ranking/americas-most-innovative-companies/

Patnaik, D. (2024, March 24). Is It Time To Rethink Your Innovation Strategy? Forbes. Retrieved from 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/devpatnaik/2024/03/24/is-it-time-to-rethink-your-innovation-strategy/?sh=7090736f440a

Chapman, M., & The Associated Press. (2024, March 28). Home Depot’s largest acquisition ever is an $18.25 billion bet on the housing market’s severe shortage of 
new homes. Fortune. Retrieved from https://fortune.com/2024/03/28/home-depot-acquisition-srs-distribution-18-25-billion-housing-market/
Li, Y., and T. Chi. 2013. Venture capitalists’ decision to withdraw: The role of portfolio configuration from a real options lens. Strategic Management Journal 34: 
1351-1366.
Li, Y. & J. Mahoney. 2011. When Are Venture Capital Projects Initiated? Journal of Business Venturing. 26(2): 239-254.
Tong, T. & Y. Li. 2011. Real Options and Investment Mode Decision: Evidence from Corporate Venture Capital and Acquisition. Organization Science. 22(3): 659-674
Courtney, C., Dutta, S., and Li, Y. 2017. Resolving information asymmetry: Signaling and crowdfunding success. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice 41(2): 265-290.
Liu, Y., Y. Li, X. Hao, and Y. Zhang. 2019. Narcissism and entrepreneurial learning from Failure. Journal of Business Venturing. 34 (3), 496-512
Li, Y., S. Zahra and S. Lan. 2017. Heterogeneity in New Venture Formation Rates across Nations: The Schumpeterian and Institutional Economics Views. 
Entrepreneurial Finance: Managerial and Policy Implications. 1-35. Lead article
Li, Y., and E. Yao. 2019. All ties are not created equal: Institutional equity ties, IPO performance, and market growth of new ventures. In D. Cumming & S. 
Johan (ed.). Oxford Handbook of IPO
Wang, E. T. G., Hu, H.-f., & Hu, P. J.-H. (2013). Examining the role of information technology in cultivating firms’ dynamic marketing capabilities. 
Information & Management, 50(6), 336-343. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.im.2013.04.007
Randolph, R. V., Hu, H.-f., & Silvernail, K. D. (2020). Better the devil you know: Inter-organizational information technology and network social capital 
in coopetition networks. Information & Management. Advance online publication. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.im.2020.103344
Randolph, R. V., Hu, H., Silvernail, K. (2018). Knowledge Networking and Coopetition: The Role of Shared Technology in Promoting Goal Convergence. 2018 
Western Academy of Management Conference, 59 9.
Hu, H.-F., Moore, W. L., & Hu, P. J. (2024). Incorporating user perceptions and product attributes in software product design and evaluation. Journal of 
Information Technology, 36(2), 123-137.
Chatterjee, S., Chakraborty, S., Fulk, K., & Lowry, P. B. (2024). The role of dissonant relational multiplexity in information system implementation 
failures. Journal of the Association for Information Systems (JAIS). Advance online publication. https://aisel.aisnet.org/jais/vol25/iss2/1/
Chatterjee, S., Sarker, S., Lee, M. J., Xiao, X., & Elbanna, A. (2021). A possible conceptualization of the information systems (IS) artifact: A general 
systems theory perspective. Information Systems Journal, 31(4), 550-578. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12292

147

Good lord. I'm feeling really unhappy. I don't know how to deal with this. I don't know what to do.
him to a game of Bakugan, and winning, and that's Bakugan, I'm feeling really depresseed and I really
have no idea how to deal with this. Kenneth Larot Yamat. @KennethLYamat. I don't know what to do about
this. 4h. I really don't know what to do. I completed an application with the disability resource center

My mood is extremely variable, and my personality is extremely volatile. I experience intense difficulties 
socializing and interacting with other people. at school. I don't know if this will do much of anything.

I need to be able to know ahead of time if a course involves group-work or not, and I just need to be able 
to be selective about when and how I manage that without it creating any kind of controversy.

148

The best way for Finland and Sweden earn the respect of Erdogan is by challenging him to a game of Bakugan, 
and winning, and that's Bakugan, not backgammon. Kenneth Larot Yamat. @KennethLYamat. 4h. The best way for.
Finland and Sweden earn the respect of Erdogan, is by challenging him to a game of Bakugan, and winning. and
that's Bakugan, not backgammon. I can't even believe how unhappy I am right now. This is a nightmare. nightmare.

Challenges for incumbents: 4h. Vaginal intercourse is a scam, and a conspiracy. Kenneth Larot Yamat

Existing infrastructure is considered old, and a liability. @KennethLYamat. 10h. the question I have for myself is:
Kenneth Larot Yamat. The best way for Finland and Sweden. I would like to go grocery shopping, but
@KennethLYamat

Existing infrastructure is considered old, and a liability. to placate Erdogan, is by challenging him to a 
game of Bakugan, and winning. and that's Bakugan, not backgammon. Kenneth Larot Yamat. @KennethLYamat

Incumbents have a resource advantage over new entrants, but their existing infrastructure can be considered 
old, and as a result, a liability. var img = new SimpleImage(200,200); print(img); for (var pixel of img.values())  {
Vaginal intercourse is a scam, and a conspiracy. Whenever you want to liquidate your position, you want to put
the funds into different assets, not different money pits. 10h. 

149

Do I need to go grocery shopping now? I want to go grocery shopping right now, but do I need to go grocery shopping.
right now? Are there any issues that can arise from putting off grocery shopping? and are there any issues that can arise.
from going grocery shopping when I don't need to? Or from going grocery shopping sooner than I need to? var newG = 255.
Well, let's say I put off grocery shopping. As of right now, I have both the time, and energy to go. - pixel.getGreen();
grocery shopping. I also have the money to go grocery shopping, but, I don't want to spend any money on groceries.

right now. I have enough groceries right now. So do I really need to go grocery shopping? The issue that I can think of 
is that, later, I might not have the time, or the energy to go grocery shopping. Thinking about the future, I might have 
the time, but not the energy, or I might have the energy, but not the time, or I might have the energy at the wrong time 
of day in the sense that I might have the energy to go grocery shopping at 11:00 PM, but the grocery store isn't open at 
that hour. pixel.setGreen(newG); } print(img); for (var pixel of img.values())  { var newR = 255 - pixel.getRed();

I really do not want to spend any money right now. Or, I guess what I mean is, I want to postpone any spending that I have 
to make into the future, or as far into the future as I can. There are these times, though, when I'm hungry as hell, at some 
weird time of day, and if I don't have anything to eat, then I have to go out to eat, and that can cause me to spend more 
money than I really want to spend. pixel.setRed(newR); } print(img); for (var pixel of img.values())  { I have to think: do I

really like going out to eat? The answer isn't always a yes. Sometimes I like going out to eat, and sometimes I do not like 
going out to eat, the answer varies, depending on my mood, and sometimes the answer varies depending on how pleasant or 
unpleasant my last dining experience was. var newG = 0 - pixel.getGreen(); pixel.setGreen(newG); } I bought Vitamin B

supplements. Maybe this will help with my energy levels. I accepted overtime this week, even though I wasn't really planning on it.
In fact, I was planning on taking the whole week off, then changed my mind last minute and just worked instead, then overtime was 
dropped at the last minute this week and I took it. print(img); for (var pixel of img.values()) { This assignment took a while.
var newB = 255 - pixel.getBlue() n pixel.setBlue(newB); } It was basically changing the pixel colors in a square. You basically

take a 200 x 200 square, and then change the colors, the first part of the assignment is changing the color to Yellow, then changing 
the color to Magenta. print(img); but there were times * when the changes made * were not things that we could * understand and change.

150

These were actually pretty interesting. It made me think about Instagram, and Instagram filters, changing the colors of an image, 
and really seeing how it works. var image = new SimpleImage ("chapel.png"); there were ideas that we could not see where we were.
for (var pixel of image.values())  { var newR =pixel.getRed() - 255; pixel.setRed(newR); } var image = new SimpleImage("chapel.png");

Kenneth Larot Yamat, DBA chestnut and hazel, SP - changes are the back of the hand of the fingers. Challenges for incumbents:
Existing infrastructure is considered old, and a liability. where the fingers are used to change new things and type new words!
Incumbents have a resource advantage over new entrants, but their existing infrastructure can be considered old, and as a result, 
a liability. Transformation of the old while transitioning, incumbents, applies to incumbents RBV - Resource Based View - extended 
into the customer context framework Resource access over ownership Presumers - consumers and producers at the same time, where 
users of a product both consume the product, and produce the product. digital context and data can be delivered with other services.

I don't know what it is but I'm finding this article incomprehensible. print(image); var image = new SimpleImage ("chapel.png");
for (var pixel of image.values())  {var newR = 255 + pixel.getRed();pixel.setRed(newR);} print(image); I'm coming to the conclusion
that much of this stuff isn't really for me. that this is not really what I should be doing. I don't really know how to pivot into
something else * or where to start or how to pivot into * something else * what to do about that how to pivot into something else.
This coding question was interesting. The goal is to create a green rectangle in the upper left corner of the image. My first attempt 
was this: but it didn't work, I tried reversing the carrots and adding equal signs, but those didn't work either, so I tried

for (var pixel of image.values()) {if (((pixel.getY() <  50 )) + ((pixel.getX() <  50 ))){
pixel.setRed(0); but there were these thinbs that were all over the place and making new ideas 
pixel.setBlue(0); that were all over the place and were oranges where the oranges were funny.
pixel.setGreen(255);}} back when I was in Arlington, TX I was developing a fabulous collection
of stamps. but. I don't know. when I left I threw almost everything away.print(image);
putting 2 if statements in, one for the X value, and one for the Y value, and it turns out 
that it worked. The correct coding is below. var image = new SimpleImage("chapel.png");

151

Presumers - consumers and producers at the same time, where users of a product both consume the 
product, and produce the product - Innovation partners and consumers. They have a multi-faceted 
role in the digital ecosystem. for (var pixel of image.values()) { use reddit as an example
if ((pixel.getY() <  50 )) if ((pixel.getX() <  50 )){ pixel.setRed(0); there were a number
of challenges that changed everything and made everything so much more challenging. challenges
that created new challenges! pixel.setBlue(0); pixel.setGreen(255); } } print(image); I tried.

152

4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents
Challenges for incumbents:
Existing infrastructure is considered old, and a liability

Incumbents have a resource advantage over new entrants, but their existing infrastructure can be 
considered old, and as a result, a liability.
Transformation of the old while transitioning, incumbents, applies to incumbents
RBV - Resource Based View - extended into the customer context framework

Resource access over ownership
Presumers - consumers and producers at the same time, where users of a product both consume the product, 
and produce the product - Innovation partners and consumers. They have a multi-faceted role in the digital ecosystem.
This article was really - boring!

153

A digital artifact doesn’t give a reason for any given decision
This might be true, but digital artifacts are also programmed, so, 
it might not give a reason, but the reason can be traced back to 
the programming of the digital artifact. to sign up for 2 full shifts 
of overtime for next week, but the system seems to have tricked me.

into taking 1 full shift, and one half shift, as soon as I went in to 
take the second full shift, only a half shift was available, so I took that.

Sometimes I get irritated when things don't seem to go my way, but sometimes, 
I think that it's for the best, that maybe the universe creates obstacles that 
will actually work out to benefit me. I haven't able to get much of the coding 
classes done this week, and part of it is the amount of overtime that I've been 
working, so I think that, maybe, not getting as much overtime as I would like 
is actually for the best.

Some of the coding assignments are kind of difficult, even though they're 
relatively simple. A lot of this reminds me of math, especially math involving 
spreadsheets.

I had lunch the other day with one of the mechanical engineers who used to work 
at the factory, and I was explaining that I was looking into the software developer 
academy opportunity with the company, and I was telling him how, to me, coding is 
like a machine, code may have bugs that cause crashes the way a machine might have 
a mechanical problem that causes jams.

My main challenge is setting aside time to work on the classes. I have to take 
overtime if it's available, that's not going to change, it's just one of the 
constraints I need to work with.

154

This took forever to figure out, but I had an issue producing the result without 
making changes outside of the designated coding area. how huge is the expense? 

The task is to fill in the // missing code area huge-er than I could have anticipated!
function topRightCorner(cornerWidth, cornerHeight, someImage, red, green, blue) {
// missing code } but it comes at a huge cost that is really huge! really HUGE!

var picture = new SimpleImage("chapel.png");
var result = topRightCorner(30, 60, picture, 255, 255, 0);
print(result); this will not work. it will never work! 
var picture2 = new SimpleImage("smalllion.jpg");
var result2 = topRightCorner(125, 20, picture2, 255, 0, 0);
print(result2); when you think of what a disaster all of this was!

So listed below was my first result, now, this is technically incorrect because I'm 
only able to produce the correctly displayed result by printing the image inside the 
designated area, and cancelling the printing outside of the coded function area.
function topRightCorner(cornerWidth, cornerHeight, someImage, red, green, blue) {

var image = new SimpleImage(someImage); so what the fuck is all of this? and what is 
for (var pixel of image.values()) { all of this for what is it doing and what is the 
if ((pixel.getY() <  cornerHeight )) if ((pixel.getX() >  image.getWidth() - cornerWidth )) {
pixel.setRed(red); reason that all of this is such a nightmare?
pixel.setBlue(blue);
pixel.setGreen(green);}}print(image);}

var picture = new SimpleImage("chapel.png");
var result = topRightCorner(30, 60, picture, 255, 255, 0);
//print(result);
var picture2 = new SimpleImage("smalllion.jpg");
var result2 = topRightCorner(125, 20, picture2, 255, 0, 0);
//print(result2);

Anyway, I was looking at my old notes, and there were coding functions where return answer 
is used at the end of the code, and then print(answer) or print(result) is used to generate 
the displayed answer, so I did that, even though in this case the assignment is dealing with 
images, rather than equations, anyway, it worked, it took me forever to figure this out.
function topRightCorner(cornerWidth, cornerHeight, someImage, red, green, blue) {

var image = new SimpleImage(someImage);
for (var pixel of image.values()) {
if ((pixel.getY() <  cornerHeight )) if ((pixel.getX() >  image.getWidth() - cornerWidth )){
pixel.setRed(red);
pixel.setBlue(blue); but there was a bigger picture invloved, and it was so big that it was
pixel.setGreen(green);} } return image }

155

Applications for Mergers & Acquisitions, Portfolio Management, and Equity Index Development
Create an equity index of publicly traded companies based on hita, different companies.  A 
list of companies will be assigned. Each assigned a HITA level. This will inform. The HITA 
equity Index will inform the M&A approach.

We can call it the 

Chatterjee 500 HITA Equity Index, 
but we might not be able to use the number 500, so, it can actually be any number.

We might not be able to use numbers like

500 - S&P 500
30 - Dow 30, dow jones industrial average
3000 - Russell 3000
5000 - WIlshire 5000
100 - NASDAQ 100

Well, maybe not because there is a NASDAQ 100 and an S&P 100.

The Chinese economy was destroyed during the 19th century from the opium trade managed by the British. 
I doubt the Chinese are interested is signing up for a second economic dope delivered depression. Canada 
and the rest of the world can't do anything about the sentence. They have zero defense spending, and 
eventually, so too will the United States. [I have no idea what this was written in response to]

How are the
changes that are being
made change the things
that are being planned

to the changes that are
innovating from a 
start point that
happened way back during

the age of
CHICKENS! hahahaha!

156

4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges

4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems

4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:

4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work					

4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 		

4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 		

4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents

Challenges for incumbents:

Existing infrastructure is considered old, and a liability

Incumbents have a resource advantage over new entrants, but their existing infrastructure can be considered old, and as a result, a liability.

Transformation of the old while transitioning, incumbents, applies to incumbents

RBV - Resource Based View - extended into the customer context framework

Resource access over ownership

Presumers - consumers and producers at the same time, where users of a product both consume the product, and produce the product - Innovation 
partners and consumers. They have a multi-faceted role in the digital ecosystem.

This article was really - boring!

A digital artifact doesn’t give a reason for any given decision
	This might be true, but digital artifacts are also programmed, so, it might not give a reason, but the reason can be traced back to the programming of the digital artifact.	

4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge

	How is digitalization - and digitization different?
	Digital ethics as a concept is somewhat new.
	Ethics and morality - Ethics is the problematization of morality. Michel foucault. 

(4/28) Module 4 										Group Paper

4.1.0 The Landscape of Emerging Technologies				Vicky
4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems		Vicky
4.1.2 Editorial Emergent Tech and Organizing			Vicky
4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:						Vicky
4.1.4 Quantum Computing and Information Systems		Vicky

4.2. The Changing Nature of Work						Kelly
4.2.1 Editorial Future of Work Organizations Society		Kelly
4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work			Kelly
4.2.3 Mental Health and Information Technology		Kelly
4.2.4 Waging war from remote cubicles				Kelly

(4/25) 4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges 			Kenneth			Group Presentation
4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 					Kenneth			Vicky
4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 					Kenneth			Kelly
4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 			Kenneth			Kenneth
4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 				Kenneth			Kenneth

(5/5) Term Project

Kenneth 
Topic: turn-arounds and pivots: leveraging organizational courage for high-risk innovation as an alternative to the conventional approach of 
distressed asset sales and mass-layoffs
intro/motivation: 
Exploratory innovation as a key turn-around / pivot strategy
Affordance level reappropriation of existing IP catalog as an ancillary strategy
Lit reviews
Case studies of failed companies
Case studies of notable turn-arounds & pivots
Twinkie turn-around
Supply chain and distribution innovations
Product chemistry innovations
Examples of possible turn-arounds
theory/conceptualization 
A company turn-around / pivot project is similar to a rehabilitation & renovation (fixer-upper) project in real estate
If we want to do last part:
We are co-owners of the Vicky Saab & Co. Special Purpose Acquisition Corporation. We will look at companies that we can buy and turn around. 
Smallest companies on the Russell 3000, for example: Travel + Leisure Co. (TNL) or Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Co. (HMHC) and create a VR Headset 
travel package, that could also be reappropriated in various additional ways: licensed to schools as a geography and history learning product, 
or a MMORPG travel and second-life kind of VR Game.

Applications for Mergers & Acquisitions, Portfolio Management, and Equity Index Development
Create an equity index of publicly traded companies based on hita, different companies.  A list of companies will be assigned. Each assigned a HITA 
level. This will inform. The HITA equity Index will inform the M&A approach.

We can call it the 

Chatterjee 500 HITA Equity Index, 
but we might not be able to use the number 500, so it can actually be any number.

We might not be able to use numbers like

500 - S&P 500
30 - Dow 30, dow jones industrial average
3000 - Russell 3000
5000 - WIlshire 5000
100 - NASDAQ 100, the nasdaq

Well, maybe not because there is a NASDAQ 100 and an S&P 100. So we might be able to use 500.

References
Chatterjee, S., Moody, G. D., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2021). The nonlinear influence of 
harmonious information technology affordance on organisational innovation. Information Systems Journal, 31(3), 294–322. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12311
Chatterjee, S., Moody, G., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2015). Strategic relevance of organizational 
virtues enabled by information technology in organizational innovation. Journal of Management Information Systems, 32(3), 158–196. https://doi.org/10.1080/07421222.2015.1099180

Chatterjee, S., Moody, G., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2020). Information technology and organizational innovation: 
Harmonious information technology affordance and courage-based actualization. Journal of Strategic Information Systems, 29, 101596. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsis.2020.101596
Rao, D. (2024, March 26). Mastering Pivots & Turnarounds: #1 Lesson From Under Armour, Hertz & Apple. 
Forbes. https://www.forbes.com/sites/dileeprao/2024/03/26/mastering-pivots--turnarounds-1-lesson-from-under-armour-hertz--apple/?sh=2ebc19f5afae
America’s Most Innovative Companies. (2024). Fortune. https://fortune.com/ranking/americas-most-innovative-companies/

Patnaik, D. (2024, March 24). Is It Time To Rethink Your Innovation Strategy? Forbes. Retrieved 
from https://www.forbes.com/sites/devpatnaik/2024/03/24/is-it-time-to-rethink-your-innovation-strategy/?sh=7090736f440a

Chapman, M., & The Associated Press. (2024, March 28). Home Depot’s largest acquisition ever is an $18.25 billion bet on the housing market’s severe shortage of new homes. 
Fortune. Retrieved from https://fortune.com/2024/03/28/home-depot-acquisition-srs-distribution-18-25-billion-housing-market/
Li, Y., and T. Chi. 2013. Venture capitalists’ decision to withdraw: The role of portfolio configuration from a real options lens. Strategic Management Journal 34: 1351-1366.
Li, Y. & J. Mahoney. 2011. When Are Venture Capital Projects Initiated? Journal of Business Venturing. 26(2): 239-254.
Tong, T. & Y. Li. 2011. Real Options and Investment Mode Decision: Evidence from Corporate Venture Capital and Acquisition. Organization Science. 22(3): 659-674
Courtney, C., Dutta, S., and Li, Y. 2017. Resolving information asymmetry: Signaling and crowdfunding success. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice 41(2): 265-290.
Liu, Y., Y. Li, X. Hao, and Y. Zhang. 2019. Narcissism and entrepreneurial learning from Failure. Journal of Business Venturing. 34 (3), 496-512
Li, Y., S. Zahra and S. Lan. 2017. Heterogeneity in New Venture Formation Rates across Nations: The Schumpeterian and Institutional Economics Views. 
Entrepreneurial Finance: Managerial and Policy Implications. 1-35. Lead article
Li, Y., and E. Yao. 2019. All ties are not created equal: Institutional equity ties, IPO performance, and market growth of new ventures. In D. Cumming & S. 
Johan (ed.). Oxford Handbook of IPO
Wang, E. T. G., Hu, H.-f., & Hu, P. J.-H. (2013). Examining the role of information technology in cultivating firms’ dynamic marketing capabilities. Information & 
Management, 50(6), 336-343. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.im.2013.04.007
Randolph, R. V., Hu, H.-f., & Silvernail, K. D. (2020). Better the devil you know: Inter-organizational information technology and network social capital in coopetition 
networks. Information & Management. Advance online publication. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.im.2020.103344
Randolph, R. V., Hu, H., Silvernail, K. (2018). Knowledge Networking and Coopetition: The Role of Shared Technology in Promoting Goal Convergence. 2018 Western Academy of 
Management Conference, 59 9.
Hu, H.-F., Moore, W. L., & Hu, P. J. (2024). Incorporating user perceptions and product attributes in software product design and evaluation. Journal of Information 
Technology, 36(2), 123-137.
Chatterjee, S., Chakraborty, S., Fulk, K., & Lowry, P. B. (2024). The role of dissonant relational multiplexity in information system implementation failures. Journal 
of the Association for Information Systems (JAIS). Advance online publication. https://aisel.aisnet.org/jais/vol25/iss2/1/
Chatterjee, S., Sarker, S., Lee, M. J., Xiao, X., & Elbanna, A. (2021). A possible conceptualization of the information systems (IS) artifact: A general systems 
theory perspective. Information Systems Journal, 31(4), 550-578. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12292
Oberlander, A. M., Roglinger, M., & Rosemann, M. (2021). Digital opportunities for incumbents – A resource-centric perspective. Journal of Strategic Information 
Systems. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsis.2021.101670
Capurro, R. (2017). Digitization as an ethical challenge. AI & Soc, 32(3), 277–283. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00146-016-0686-z
Wessel, L., Baiyere, A., Ologeanu-Taddei, R., Cha, J., & Jensen, T. B. (2021). Unpacking the Difference Between Digital Transformation and IT-Enabled Organizational 
Transformation. Journal of the Association for Information Systems, 22(1), 102-129. https://doi.org/10.17705/1jais.00655

157

How can all the
places where we went
be even better

when we changed everything
around and made
everything more silly!

we made the horses
change into
donkey!

This is an interesting post. I'm writing this update on 10/11/2022 at 07:03 PM 
from North Las Vegas, Nevada. I think that I wrote this post a while ago when I 
was living in Arlington, Texas. I deleted as much of the. I deleted anything related.

I don't evenw
want to remember some 
of the things.
that I often come across
here and read!

There just aren't as many distractions in my life as there used to be, and I don't know 
if this is a good thing, or something to be sad about. I really don't browse dating apps 
or social media apps. I still watch YouTube videos and documentaries that aren't entirely 
useful, but that I find entertaining or interesting. I've even removed the quick start 
buttons for computer games from the task bar on my computer. I have less than 1 month 
to be ready for my for my entrance exam for the Academy. 

158

I was thinking about buying an energy drink right now, but I remember the last time I did 
this, and it did not go well, so, I decided not to get an energy drink. 

I'm trying to think. I'm doing a small amount of day and swing trading, just 5 shares at a 
time, and I've been able to enter and exit 3 out of 4 of the ticker symbols I'm working with, 
but on the 4 one, I'm slowly starting to accumulate a position, but my thinking is that, I'll 
eventually be able to exit, or, I'll accumulate a full 100 shares, and attempt to exit via 
writing covered call options.

I had Thursday off, and slept the whole day, I didn't go out to eat, but I thought about it, 
and then decided against it. It wasn't because I didn't want to spend the money, it was 
because it was late at night, and I really wasn't sure what would be open, or, what I would 
or wouldn't feel like eating.

I bought new pants. 17 pairs, which I think is kind of a lot of pants. I bought cardboard boxes 
too, the kind that resemble plastic filing totes with lids, it probably would have been slightly 
cheaper to buy plastic totes.

Anyway, I'm not using them to file documents or anything. My goal is to organize things that I 
keep in my closet.

Applications for Mergers & Acquisitions, Portfolio Management, and Equity Index Development
Create an equity index of publicly traded companies based on hita, different companies.  A 
list of companies will be assigned. Each assigned a HITA level. This will inform. The HITA 
equity Index will inform the M&A approach.

the bottle
of orange juice
made it back

home alive because
I did not drink it
while it was travelling with
me. good thing too!

turns out the orange juice
was actually tangerine soda!

We can call it the 

Chatterjee 500 HITA Equity Index, 
but we might not be able to use the number 500, 
so it can actually be any number.

We might not be able to use numbers like

500 - S&P 500
30 - Dow 30, dow jones industrial average
3000 - Russell 3000
5000 - WIlshire 5000
100 - NASDAQ 100, the nasdaq

Well, maybe not because there is a NASDAQ 100 and an 
S&P 100. So we might be able to use 500.

159

how can you
say such horrible things
when the things you
say are so well said?

how can it be that the oranges
turned into tangerines
while I wasn't looking?

I think that it is nothing less
than: pure. MAGIC!

I got an oil change for my car. It seemed like a long stretch since 
my last oil change, but full synthetic oil changes are only needed 
every 8000 miles, so I was actually right on time. My last oil change 
was at 20700 and this one was at 28060. 

Well. I don't know
right now it feels like.
Programming. is just one
of those things that I have
to file away now. Like.
Bronze Working!
hahahaha. I don't know.
whatever I guess.

I got an oil change for my car, I would have had my tires changed too, 
but they seem to have plenty of tread, so, I'm really not going to waste 
the money. Even though I'm kind of a cheapskate, or, maybe I've become 
kind of a cheapskate, one thing that I've been spending too much money 
on is food. For now, I won't worry too much about it, but I will keep 
in mind not to spend too much money on food. 

I finally got my project to upload an image. Small victories. Here is one 
thing that I've noticed: it's possible to set the dimensions of a canvas 
in CSS or HTML. For some reason I decided to set the dimensions in HTML, 
and when I uploaded the image, the canvas stretched to fit the image, 
when the dimensions of the canvas are set in CSS, it seems the image is 
stretched to fit the canvas. Most of the other student projects that I'm 
taking guidance from set the dimensions of the canvas in CSS, but I think 
I'm going to keep the canvas dimensions set in HTML because I prefer that 
the image retain its, I guess, dimensional integrity. 

160

Right now, for food, I'll just stick to the 7-Eleven grill items. Fast 
food, buffet food, and restaurants will cost too much 

I was able to get the Reset Image button to work. Second small victory. 

you are too damn fine so for the good of myself and for the good of mankind 
i'm going to eat your i'm going to i'm going to eat your you know well yeah 
that's what i'm going to do 

I few days ago I received a marketing email from the company that she works 
for, and it kind of irritated me more than I thought that it would. I requested 
to be removed from the emailing list a while ago, and I also tried to delete my 
account with her company, but, it didn't seem like that option was easily 
available. I don't know how I really feel about that whole thing. I don't 
know if it's something I want to forget, or something that I just don't want 
to think about.

161

chickens are the start of where chicken sandwiches begin.
if you start off as a chicken sandwich, you will become
a chicken hamburger after a while, you can start off as
a chicken tender, or even a nugget of chicken. would you
like a nugget of wisdom? or would you prefer a nugget of
chicken?

901 E Division St
at QuikTrip
Arlington, TX 76011-7333
United States

oh, that is true. of the civilizations of antiquity, i love the romans the best, 
but the egyptians were fucking amazing. the invented perfume. but the romans invented 
plumbing so, this is a tough one.

you know, distilled alcohol was originally made by the egyptians to enhance perfume, 
or i guess incense or whatever, but the europeans tried to drink it, and went blind

i think that is the story
Jorbalia # 241 by Kenneth Larot Yamat

Jorbalia 67 by Kenneth Larot Yamat
i ate here earlier today. i applied 
here for work, but they never seem to 
have any openings. it's a small place 
anyway, staff-wise. they have steamed 
or fried mushrooms, which i really liked.

i ate here earlier today. i applied here 
for work, but they never seem to have any 
openings. it's a small place anyway, staff-wise. 
they have steamed or fried mushrooms, which i 
really liked.

how so many things change where the ages are 
and where the places
are and

where the highest places of the
mountains where we shout
and scream about

how great everything is during the day
and how everything is cold
during the night.

Change where the people 
have gone where they often seem to go where
they happen to be where they 
want to see more where they 
seem to be where they often go where.

how are the
pages on the
screen looking

when the pages
on the screen are
not very digital 
when the pages
on the screen are not.

all that amazing when the pages.
change into new pages of new material.

FEMINISM
Favorite feminist icon
The next thing the feminist movement has to focus on is
The kind of feminism I most identify with
How I deal with people who are anti-feminist
My thoughts on male allies
Queen Boudica
Queen Victoria
Queen Elizabeth I
Catherine the Great
Margaret Thatcher
Carly Fiorina
Meg Whitman
Hillary Clinton

I think that a real feminist does something great, 
and that stands the test of time, not just writes 
lists of what she wants from society. I think that 
list writing is Santa Clause Feminism. I do not care 
for Santa Clause feminists.

var picture = new SimpleImage("chapel.png");
var result = topRightCorner(30, 60, picture, 255, 255, 0);
print(result);
var picture2 = new SimpleImage("smalllion.jpg");
var result2 = topRightCorner(125, 20, picture2, 255, 0, 0);
print(result2);

It took me a really long time to figure this out. I don't 
even want to start working on the next question. I really don't.

This was the last question of the assignment, and it came rather quickly:

function changeRed(width, height) {
var picture = new SimpleImage(width, height);
var red = 0;

162

for (var pixel of picture.values()) {
if ((pixel.getX() )){
pixel.setRed(pixel.getX());}}
return picture;}

var result = changeRed(256,200);
print(result);
I can't believe how hot it is.

Today is Monday, like Monday-Monday. A real Monday, but for 
me it's a Wednesday in terms of the workweek, and yet that's 
not really accurate because I signed up for overtime this week, 
and I don't exactly have a day off. I signed up for two half-shifts. 
I kind of had to fight to keep my job today, not exactly but kind of. 
I'm not exactly sure what I would do if I were on the job market again.

163

life is kind of. I don't. It's kind of whatever. you know.
some person on reddit laments that the person's country is on 
fire again, but i can't determine if the person is from france or canada.

It feels like there is a hole in my chest, or, like a ball of lead. 
I'm not really happy and I'm not sure why. There isn't much going on. 
Everything is kind of boring right now because the major goal. The major 
focus I have right now is paying down my credit cards.

I deleted my Facebook Dating profile like a few hours after setting it up. 
I didn't really put much into it, so I don't really feel like it's much of 
a loss.

I don't feel like getting de-monetized, and I've also just filed another 
appeal, but, I'm just not looking for a relationship and I don't know how 
else to put it, most of the apps for that type of connection are totally 
bogus. so, i'm not really going to put any more effort into that.

some person on reddit laments that his country is on fire again, but i 
couldn't determine if the person was from france or canada.

164

i don't know what's on my mind right now. I submitted an audit. I submitted
a course audit for MIS 768. and I almost submitted a course audit for MIS 764
as well.

I'm feeling unhappy right now, and I don't know what set this off. There's 
nothing really going on. I signed up for Facebook Dating. Again. But. I'm 
not really enthusiastic about trying this again for the nine millionth time. 
Dating is something that I've really just given up on. And the truth is. I'm 
not looking for a relationship.

It's so hot. I can't believe how hot it is. I read that there was a heat wave in 
Texas, but I looked up the temperature in Dallas, and it's 12 degrees lower, but 
then again, it's later in the day over there, so I guess that's not an accurate 
comparison. At 10PM Pacific the temperature will be lower here in Vegas too.

when you take 
it all together
and see how
it all adds up and
how none of it
makes sense when
you look at it from
the perspective of
a person who sees
the bigger picture

you'll notice something
that you didn't notice
the last time you took
a look at it and sense that.

and you might not take
what you see seriously
because it doesn't look real
and you can't see the best
of the worst of the very
most interesting and you
can't take it with you
if you see where things go.

maybe you see things
that you aren't sure you
wanted to see or you
find out things that you
did not want to find out. 

but that's sometimes
the way it goes.

maybe you dig
but don't find anything
maybe you search
and you don't find anything
maybe you look
and see nothing

i imagined you called me 
and asked me to coffee
i imagined nothing i'd rather do
than have coffee with you

when i see the future i don't
see anything all that amazing
nothing in the future
nothing that i can see 
about the future seems
all that exciting
well
maybe that's not true maybe
sometimes

sometimes i see things that are
kind of amazing. some of the things
are not amazing.

i haven't fallen asleep and i need
to get some rest
and i've been actively trying to
fall asleep and i haven't been
successful in doing so.
even in this small task i seem
to have failed.

i haven't shaved my head in a while
because the last time i did i ended
up with a lot of nicks and cuts
and subsequently a bunch of scabs
which if i didn't let them heal would
just become new nicks and cuts
so i just didn't shave.

i think sometimes it's a reason
but it's not really a great reason
but it's a reason and
i'm really tired of explaining
every reason for every action
for every reason for every decision

and what i want to ask you is
if you're still as beautiful
as you always will be
because some people never change

i think that i'm missing something
i feel like i'm missing something
i have to be missing something
because i know that i'm missing something,
but what is it? i don't have a clue!

scatter brained where
half of my brain and thoughts 
are here and the other half
are somewhere else
maybe one day i'll have
a whole bunch of cool stuff
and maybe I won't but maybe
there are things that do not make 
sense where the things are

i don't know where the best
of the things are that cause 
my phone
alarm to ring. time
to head to work.
time to wake up
time to get going.
here we are and
we will be there shortly.

staring at the computer
screen and nothing changes
things are the same now
as they were just a few seconds
ago there is no change
there is nothing new to 
discover.

165

Sonnet in Java by Kenneth Larot 
Yamat dba Chestnut + Hazel (2024) 
 
I think about how things are going for
me at the moment and I feel nothing
but frustration and stress anger and more
at the beginning I wanted something
 
now I'm just not sure what to look forward
to and now this is the time I lose my
way and these times these difficult and hard
times where things aren't really clear and I lie
 
in bed staring at the ceiling thinking
that something in my mind will clarify
nothing does and I continue sinking
into this mental vortex down just shy
 
of hitting the ocean floor where the squid
and jellyfish and octopuses lived

Sonnet in Java #2 by Kenneth Larot 
Yamat dba Chestnut + Hazel (2024) 
 
chickens are the start of any yummy
meal that a person can eat like nuggets
tenders strips delightful to the tummy
satisfying all the time and it gets
 
my mouth watering just as a dog drools
but what about cod you say well I say
this although chickens do not swin in schools
they run around on land and peck and play
 
and when I see them I gobble them up
no matter how cute they are because I'm
an ogre a chicken inside a cup
tiny cute and yellow small as a dime
 
pecks about after hatching from a hen
the better to eat you with my chicken

what was I thinking about? I enrolled in two accounting
courses for the summer semester of 2024. I'm really excited,
but. I'm also worried. even though these are topics that I'm 
really interested in, the same could be said for the MIS courses
I took this semester, and. you know. things can go just as
catastrophically for me during the summer as they did during
the spring 2024 semeseter.

166

Kenneth 
intro/motivation: 
Exploratory innovation as a key turn-around / pivot strategy
Affordance level reappropriation of existing IP catalog as an ancillary strategy
Lit reviews
Case studies of failed companies
Case studies of notable turn-arounds & pivots
Twinkie turn-around
Supply chain and distribution innovations
Product chemistry innovations
Examples of possible turn-arounds
theory/conceptualization 
A company turn-around / pivot project is similar to a rehabilitation & renovation (fixer-upper) project in real estate
If we want to do last part:
We are co-owners of the Vicky Saab & Co. Special Purpose Acquisition Corporation. We will look at companies 
that we can buy and turn around. Smallest companies on the Russell 3000, for example: Travel + Leisure Co. 
(TNL) or Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Co. (HMHC) and create a VR Headset travel package, that could also be 
reappropriated in various additional ways: licensed to schools as a geography and history learning product, 
or a MMORPG travel and second-life kind of VR Game.

Create an equity index of publicly traded companies based on hita, different companies.  
A list of companies will be assigned. Each assigned a HITA level. This will inform. The 
HITA equity Index will inform the M&A approach. Since the HITA impact on innovation is 
quadratic, we would use the absolute value of a company’s assigned HITA to rank companies 
within this index.

We can call it the 

Chatterjee 500 HITA Equity Index, 
but we might not be able to use the number 500, so it can actually be any number.

We might not be able to use numbers like

500 - S&P 500
30 - Dow 30, dow jones industrial average
3000 - Russell 3000
5000 - WIlshire 5000
100 - NASDAQ 100, the nasdaq

Well, maybe not because there is a NASDAQ 100 and an S&P 100. So we might be able to use 500.

what was it?
I don't really know.
there are.
any number of nightmares!

any number of them!
well. I applied to the
dual MBA Computer Science program, 
but I didn't. I wasn't accepted into
the computer science program.

I really don't have any undergraduate coursework 
or even any kind of pre-requisites that really.
would get me in, and I haven't taken the GRE.

I don't really write a lot unless I'm facing challenges in 
life, but if everything is normal, then there really isn't 
much to write about. I had breakfast, I had lunch, I had 
dinner, I did laundry, and so on.

I signed up for a technical training program through 
the educational benefits offered by my employer. I hope this works.

Actually, don't worry about it, do whatever you'd like to do.

You're setting yourself up for the same problems over and over 
because you're doing the same things over and over with the 
expectation of a different outcome.

Actually, don't worry about it, do whatever you'd like to do.

You're setting yourself up for the same problems over and over 
because you're doing the same things over and over with the 
expectation of a different outcome.

I think it's this, and I'm trying to be both candid and tactful 
at the same time, and it's very difficult to be both simultaneously, 
but hell, I'll try it.

Uh, well, I think it's this, and stop me if you disagree or maybe 
don't stop me because you like hearing me talk, maybe you like the 
sound of my voice, listen.

Let me ask you this because maybe you need a reflective moment for 
once so here it is: why do you think things fall apart so easily for you?

📮5892 Losee RD STE 132 PMB 176, North Las Vegas, NV 
89081-6200 📧 info@chestnutandhazel.com ☎+1-816-724-5293

some of these
are some of the best
and some of these
are some of the worst
and some of you
will be the best of the best
the one-percent

4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges
4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems
4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:
4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work					
4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review
   Framework for conceptualizing digital innovation framework
   Economics strategy and marketing 		
4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 		
4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents

Create an equity index of publicly traded companies based on hita, different companies.  
A list of companies will be assigned. Each assigned a HITA level. This will inform. The 
HITA equity Index will inform the M&A approach. Since the HITA impact on innovation is 
quadratic, we would use the absolute value of a company’s assigned HITA to rank companies 
within this index.

We can call it the 

Chatterjee 500 HITA Equity Index, 
but we might not be able to use the number 500, so it can actually be any number.

167

This email contains my individual development plan for 2024. I'm currently enrolled in the
entrepreneurship and innovation graduate certificate program, and I was not enrolled or admitted
to any program during the 2023 academic calendar.

My primary goal for the 2024 academic year is to file a patent before the end of the 2024
tax year. My accomplishments for the 2024 calendar year include increasing my intellectual
property catalog by 33%, which includes the registration of 2 software copyrights filed
while taking MIS 768 with Han-fen Hu, Ph.D. for applications submitted as assignments during
her course. I anticipate increasing my catalog by an additional 12% before the spring 2024
semester is completed.

On a longer time horizon, I would say that my entrepreneurial goal would be to create a kind of
holding company using the traditional structure, a CEF structure, or a SPAC structure, depending
on what's most appropriate for the organizational objectives of the holding company. I was inspired
by the conceptual framework, HITA, introduced by Sutirtha Chatterjee, Ph.D. in his MIS 764 course.
I've included draft work of a term project below.

   (5/5) Term Project
   Topic: 
   turn-arounds and pivots: leveraging organizational courage for high-risk innovation as an
   alternative to the conventional approach of distressed asset sales and mass-layoffs

   Implementation:

   HITA Applications for Mergers & Acquisitions, Portfolio Management, and Equity Index Development
   Create an equity index of publicly traded companies based on hita, different companies.  A list of 
   companies will be assigned. Each assigned a HITA level. This will inform. The HITA equity Index will 
   inform the M&A approach. Since the HITA impact on innovation is quadratic, we would use the absolute 
   value of a company’s assigned HITA to rank companies within this index.

   We can call it the 

   Chatterjee 500 HITA Equity Index, 
   but we might not be able to use the number 500, so it can actually be any number.

   We might not be able to use numbers like

   500 - S&P 500, the s&p
   30 - Dow 30, dow jones industrial average, the dow
   3000 - Russell 3000
   5000 - WIlshire 5000
   100 - NASDAQ 100, the nasdaq

   Well, maybe not because there is a NASDAQ 100 and an S&P 100. So we might be able to use 500.

Sincerely,
Kenneth Larot Yamat
Annual Mandatory Individual Development Plan (IDP)
yong.li@unlv.edu
Greetings Yong Li, Ph.D. :

This email contains my individual development plan for 2024. I'm currently enrolled in the
entreprenurship and innovation graduate certificate program, and I was not enrolled or admitted
to any program during the 2023 academic calendar.

My primary goal for the 2024 academic year is to file a patent before the end of the 2024
tax year. My accomplishments for the 2024 calendar year include increasing my intellectual
property catalog by 33%, which includes the registration of 2 software copyrights filed
while taking MIS 768 with Han-fen Hu, Ph.D. for applications submitted as assignments during
her course. I anticipate increasing my catalog by an additional 12% before the spring 2024
semester is completed.

On a longer time horizon, I would say that my entreprenurial goal would be to create a kind of
holding company using the traditional structure, a CEF structure, or a SPAC structre, depending
on what's most appropriate for the organizational objectives of the holding company. I was inspired
by the conceptual framework, HITA, introduced by Sutirtha Chatterjee, Ph.D. in his MIS 764 course.
I've included draft work of a term project below.

   (5/5) Term Project
   Topic: 
   turn-arounds and pivots: leveraging organizational courage for high-risk innovation as an
   alternative to the conventional approach of distressed asset sales and mass-layoffs

   Implementation:

   HITA Applications for Mergers & Acquisitions, Portfolio Management, and Equity Index Development
   Create an equity index of publicly traded companies based on hita, different companies.  A list of 
   companies will be assigned. Each assigned a HITA level. This will inform. The HITA equity Index will 
   inform the M&A approach. Since the HITA impact on innovation is quadratic, we would use the absolute 
   value of a company’s assigned HITA to rank companies within this index.

   We can call it the 

   Chatterjee 500 HITA Equity Index, 
   but we might not be able to use the number 500, so it can actually be any number.

   We might not be able to use numbers like

   500 - S&P 500, the s&p
   30 - Dow 30, dow jones industrial average, the dow
   3000 - Russell 3000
   5000 - WIlshire 5000
   100 - NASDAQ 100, the nasdaq

   Well, maybe not because there is a NASDAQ 100 and an S&P 100. So we might be able to use 500.

Sincerely,

Kenneth Larot Yamat

168

Framework for conceptualizing digital innovation framework
Economics strategy and marketing 
Digital object, digital technology has different uses and meanings 
depending on the social circles where it is being used. This results 
in products boundaries are fluid, and determined by social actors

Framework for conceptualizing digital innovation framework
Economics strategy and marketing 

Digital object, digital technology has different uses and meanings depending on the 
social circles where it is being used. This results in products boundaries are fluid, 
and determined by social actors

Socio-Technical phenomenon.
Agency is distributed
Heterogeneous groups
Across industries
Across disciplines

4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges
4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems
4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:

4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work			
4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review
Framework for conceptualizing digital innovation framework

Economics strategy and marketing 		
4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 		
4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents
Challenges for incumbents:
Existing infrastructure is considered old, and a liability
Incumbents have a resource advantage over new entrants, but their 
existing infrastructure can be considered old, and as a result, a liability.

169

Transformation of the old while transitioning, incumbents, applies to incumbents
RBV - Resource Based View - extended into the customer context framework
Resource access over ownership
Presumers - consumers and producers at the same time, where users of a product both consume 
the product, and produce the product - Innovation partners and consumers. They have a 
multi-faceted role in the digital ecosystem.

This article was really - boring!
A digital artifact doesn’t give a reason for any given decision
	This might be true, but digital artifacts are also programmed, so, it might not give a reason, 
   but the reason can be traced back to the programming of the digital artifact.

170	

4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge

	How is digitalization - and digitization different?
	Digital ethics as a concept is somewhat new.
	Ethics and morality - Ethics is the problematization of morality. Michel foucault. 

(4/28) Module 4 										               Group Paper

4.1.0 The Landscape of Emerging Technologies				      Vicky
4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems		      Vicky
4.1.2 Editorial Emergent Tech and Organizing			         Vicky
4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:						               Vicky
4.1.4 Quantum Computing and Information Systems		         Vicky

4.2. The Changing Nature of Work						            Kelly
4.2.1 Editorial Future of Work Organizations Society		   Kelly
4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work			         Kelly
4.2.3 Mental Health and Information Technology		         Kelly
4.2.4 Waging war from remote cubicles				            Kelly

(4/25) 4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges 			Kenneth			Group Presentation
4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 					               Kenneth			Vicky
4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 					               Kenneth			Kelly
4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 			         Kenneth			Kenneth
4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 				         Kenneth			Kenneth

171

Extended Resource based view - enterprises that share resources. As partners, or through supplier and customer relationships

(5/5) Term Project
Topic: 
turn-arounds and pivots: leveraging organizational courage for high-risk innovation as an
alternative to the conventional approach of distressed asset sales and mass-layoffs

Implementation:

HITA Applications for Mergers & Acquisitions, Portfolio Management, and Equity Index Development
Create an equity index of publicly traded companies based on hita, different companies.  A list of companies will be assigned. 
Each assigned a HITA level. This will inform. The HITA equity Index will inform the M&A approach. Since the HITA impact on 
innovation is quadratic, we would use the absolute value of a company’s assigned HITA to rank companies within this index.

We can call it the 

Chatterjee 500 HITA Equity Index, 
but we might not be able to use the number 500, so it can actually be any number.

We might not be able to use numbers like

500 - S&P 500, the s&p
30 - Dow 30, dow jones industrial average, the dow
3000 - Russell 3000
5000 - WIlshire 5000
100 - NASDAQ 100, the nasdaq

Well, maybe not because there is a NASDAQ 100 and an S&P 100. So we might be able to use 500.

172

References
Chatterjee, S., Moody, G. D., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2021). The nonlinear 
influence of harmonious information technology affordance on organisational innovation. Information 
Systems Journal, 31(3), 294–322. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12311
Chatterjee, S., Moody, G., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2015). Strategic 
relevance of organizational virtues enabled by information technology in organizational 
innovation. Journal of Management Information Systems, 32(3), 158–196. 
https://doi.org/10.1080/07421222.2015.1099180

173

Chatterjee, S., Moody, G., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2020). Information technology and organizational innovation: 
Harmonious information technology affordance and courage-based actualization. Journal of Strategic Information Systems, 29, 101596. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsis.2020.101596
Rao, D. (2024, March 26). Mastering Pivots & Turnarounds: #1 Lesson From Under Armour, Hertz & Apple. Forbes. 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/dileeprao/2024/03/26/mastering-pivots--turnarounds-1-lesson-from-under-armour-hertz--apple/?sh=2ebc19f5afae
America’s Most Innovative Companies. (2024). Fortune. https://fortune.com/ranking/americas-most-innovative-companies/

Patnaik, D. (2024, March 24). Is It Time To Rethink Your Innovation Strategy? Forbes. Retrieved from 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/devpatnaik/2024/03/24/is-it-time-to-rethink-your-innovation-strategy/?sh=7090736f440a

Chapman, M., & The Associated Press. (2024, March 28). Home Depot’s largest acquisition ever is an $18.25 billion 
bet on the housing market’s severe shortage of new homes. Fortune. Retrieved from 
https://fortune.com/2024/03/28/home-depot-acquisition-srs-distribution-18-25-billion-housing-market/
Li, Y., and T. Chi. 2013. Venture capitalists’ decision to withdraw: The role of portfolio configuration from a real options lens. Strategic Management Journal 34: 1351-1366.
Li, Y. & J. Mahoney. 2011. When Are Venture Capital Projects Initiated? Journal of Business Venturing. 26(2): 239-254.
Tong, T. & Y. Li. 2011. Real Options and Investment Mode Decision: Evidence from Corporate Venture Capital and Acquisition. Organization Science. 22(3): 659-674
Courtney, C., Dutta, S., and Li, Y. 2017. Resolving information asymmetry: Signaling and crowdfunding success. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice 41(2): 265-290.
Liu, Y., Y. Li, X. Hao, and Y. Zhang. 2019. Narcissism and entrepreneurial learning from Failure. Journal of Business Venturing. 34 (3), 496-512
Li, Y., S. Zahra and S. Lan. 2017. Heterogeneity in New Venture Formation Rates across Nations: The Schumpeterian and Institutional Economics Views. 
Entrepreneurial Finance: Managerial and Policy Implications. 1-35. Lead article

Li, Y., and E. Yao. 2019. All ties are not created equal: Institutional equity ties, IPO performance, and market growth of new ventures. In D. 
Cumming & S. Johan (ed.). Oxford Handbook of IPO
Wang, E. T. G., Hu, H.-f., & Hu, P. J.-H. (2013). Examining the role of information technology in cultivating firms’ dynamic marketing capabilities. 
Information & Management, 50(6), 336-343. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.im.2013.04.007
Randolph, R. V., Hu, H.-f., & Silvernail, K. D. (2020). Better the devil you know: Inter-organizational information technology and network social 
capital in coopetition networks. Information & Management. Advance online publication. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.im.2020.103344
Randolph, R. V., Hu, H., Silvernail, K. (2018). Knowledge Networking and Coopetition: The Role of Shared Technology in Promoting Goal Convergence. 
2018 Western Academy of Management Conference, 59 9.
Hu, H.-F., Moore, W. L., & Hu, P. J. (2024). Incorporating user perceptions and product attributes in software product design and evaluation. Journal 
of Information Technology, 36(2), 123-137.

Chatterjee, S., Chakraborty, S., Fulk, K., & Lowry, P. B. (2024). The role of dissonant relational multiplexity in information system implementation 
failures. Journal of the Association for Information Systems (JAIS). Advance online publication. https://aisel.aisnet.org/jais/vol25/iss2/1/
Chatterjee, S., Sarker, S., Lee, M. J., Xiao, X., & Elbanna, A. (2021). A possible conceptualization of the information systems (IS) artifact: A 
general systems theory perspective. Information Systems Journal, 31(4), 550-578. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12292
Oberlander, A. M., Roglinger, M., & Rosemann, M. (2021). Digital opportunities for incumbents – A resource-centric perspective. Journal of Strategic 
Information Systems. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsis.2021.101670
Capurro, R. (2017). Digitization as an ethical challenge. AI & Soc, 32(3), 277–283. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00146-016-0686-z
Wessel, L., Baiyere, A., Ologeanu-Taddei, R., Cha, J., & Jensen, T. B. (2021). Unpacking the Difference Between Digital Transformation and IT-Enabled 
Organizational Transformation. Journal of the Association for Information Systems, 22(1), 102-129. https://doi.org/10.17705/1jais.00655

This email contains my individual development plan for 2024. I'm currently enrolled in the
entrepreneurship and innovation graduate certificate program, and I was not enrolled or admitted
to any program during the 2023 academic calendar.

My primary goal for the 2024 academic year is to file a patent before the end of the 2024
tax year. My accomplishments for the 2024 calendar year include increasing my intellectual
property catalog by 33%, which includes the registration of 2 software copyrights filed
while taking MIS 768 with Han-fen Hu, Ph.D. for applications submitted as assignments during
her course. I anticipate increasing my catalog by an additional 12% before the spring 2024
semester is completed.

On a longer time horizon, I would say that my entrepreneurial goal would be to create a kind of
holding company using the traditional structure, a CEF structure, or a SPAC structure, depending
on what's most appropriate for the organizational objectives of the holding company. I was inspired
by the conceptual framework, HITA, introduced by Sutirtha Chatterjee, Ph.D. in his MIS 764 course.
I've included initial draft work of a term project below.

   (5/5) Term Project
   Topic:
   turn-arounds and pivots: leveraging organizational courage for high-risk innovation as an
   alternative to the conventional approach of distressed asset sales and mass-layoffs

   Implementation:

   HITA Applications for Mergers & Acquisitions, Portfolio Management, and Equity Index Development
   Create an equity index of publicly traded companies based on hita, different companies.  A list of
   companies will be assigned. Each assigned a HITA level. This will inform. The HITA equity Index will
   inform the M&A approach. Since the HITA impact on innovation is quadratic, we would use the absolute
   value of a company’s assigned HITA to rank companies within this index.

   We can call it the

   Chatterjee 500 HITA Equity Index,
   but we might not be able to use the number 500, so it can actually be any number.

   We might not be able to use numbers like

   500 - S&P 500, the s&p
   30 - Dow 30, dow jones industrial average, the dow
   3000 - Russell 3000
   5000 - WIlshire 5000
   100 - NASDAQ 100, the nasdaq

   Well, maybe not because there is a NASDAQ 100 and an S&P 100. So we might be able to use 500.

Sincerely,

Kenneth Larot Yamat

Ekphrastics: Breasts
A woman sips on a glass of red wine
as the man across from her tells a joke,
it tickles her tummy, her tits, divine,
jiggle this way and that as her lips soak

in the blood of grapes fermented for years
in cask and bottle, in the air around 
them and in their clothes and cosmetics, tears
of hazardous chemical waste abound,

from the blood of grapes to the blood in your
veins and arteries a swirling eddy
of chemicals exists, in every pore
of your skin the chemicals are ready

to kill and disrupt your metabolic
system, I'm not being hyperbolic.

I Bought You Lunch
Last night I went to
the fish market and
bought you a fish.

It is in the office 
refrigerator for
you to enjoy for 
lunch, and as a
snack if you are
hungry and want
to eat something.

It is sushi grade,
so you can cook
it or eat it raw, 
but whatever you
decide to do, you
must do it quick
because it will
expire quickly.

I know that you 
are a white girl
who doesn't eat
fish, and that most
white girls only
eat regular food.

and that fish is 
for gooks like me,
but I did it because
I hope that one 
day you will enjoy
eating fish.

174

4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges
4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems
4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:
4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work					

4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review
Framework for conceptualizing digital innovation framework
Economics strategy and marketing 

Digital object, digital technology has different uses and meanings depending on the social 
circles where it is being used. This results in products boundaries are fluid, and 
determined by social actors

Socio-Technical phenomenon.
Agency is distributed
Heterogeneous groups
Across industries
Across disciplines		

4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference
4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents
Challenges for incumbents:

Existing infrastructure is considered old, and a liability
Incumbents have a resource advantage over new entrants, but their existing infrastructure 
can be considered old, and as a result, a liability.
Transformation of the old while transitioning, incumbents, applies to incumbents

RBV - Resource Based View - extended into the customer context framework
Resource access over ownership
Presumers - consumers and producers at the same time, where users of a product both consume the 
product, and produce the product - Innovation partners and consumers. They have a multi-faceted 
role in the digital ecosystem.

This article was really - boring!

A digital artifact doesn’t give a reason for any given decision
	This might be true, but digital artifacts are also programmed, so, it might not give a reason, 
   but the reason can be traced back to the programming of the digital artifact.

Extended Resource based view - enterprises that share resources. As partners, or through 
supplier and customer relationships

175 		

4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge

	How is digitalization - and digitization different?
	Digital ethics as a concept is somewhat new.
	Ethics and morality - Ethics is the problematization of morality. Michel foucault. 

(4/28) Module 4 										Group Paper

4.1.0 The Landscape of Emerging Technologies				Vicky
4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems		Vicky
4.1.2 Editorial Emergent Tech and Organizing			Vicky
4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:						Vicky
4.1.4 Quantum Computing and Information Systems		Vicky


4.2. The Changing Nature of Work						Kelly
4.2.1 Editorial Future of Work Organizations Society		Kelly
4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work			Kelly
4.2.3 Mental Health and Information Technology		Kelly
4.2.4 Waging war from remote cubicles				Kelly

(4/25) 4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges 			Kenneth			Group Presentation
4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 					Kenneth			Vicky
4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 					Kenneth			Kelly
4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 			Kenneth			Kenneth
4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 				Kenneth			Kenneth

(5/5) Term Project
Topic: 
turn-arounds and pivots: leveraging organizational courage for high-risk innovation as an
alternative to the conventional approach of distressed asset sales and mass-layoffs

Implementation:

HITA Applications for Mergers & Acquisitions, Portfolio Management, and Equity Index Development
Create an equity index of publicly traded companies based on hita, different companies.  A list of 
companies will be assigned. Each assigned a HITA level. This will inform. The HITA equity Index will 
inform the M&A approach. Since the HITA impact on innovation is quadratic, we would use the absolute 
value of a company’s assigned HITA to rank companies within this index.

We can call it the 

Chatterjee 500 HITA Equity Index, 
but we might not be able to use the number 500, so it can actually be any number.

We might not be able to use numbers like

500 - S&P 500, the s&p
30 - Dow 30, dow jones industrial average, the dow
3000 - Russell 3000
5000 - WIlshire 5000
100 - NASDAQ 100, the nasdaq

176

Well, maybe not because there is a NASDAQ 100 and an S&P 100. So we might be able to use 500.
Topic: turn-arounds and pivots: leveraging organizational courage for high-risk innovation as 
an alternative to the conventional approach of distressed asset fire sales and mass-layoffs
intro/motivation: 
Exploratory innovation as a key turn-around / pivot strategy
Affordance level reappropriation of existing IP catalog as an ancillary strategy
Lit reviews
Case studies of failed companies
Case studies of notable turn-arounds & pivots
Twinkie turn-around (2013) by Sol Invictus 
Supply chain and distribution innovations
Product chemistry innovations
Examples of possible turn-arounds
theory/conceptualization 
A company turn-around / pivot project is similar to a rehabilitation & renovation (fixer-upper) project in real estate
If we want to do last part:
We are co-owners of the Vicky Saab & Co. Special Purpose Acquisition Corporation. We will look at companies that we can 
buy and turn around. Smallest companies on the Russell 3000, for example: Travel + Leisure Co. (TNL) or Houghton Mifflin 
Harcourt Co. (HMHC) and create a VR Headset travel package, that could also be reappropriated in various additional ways: 
licensed to schools as a geography and history learning product, or a MMORPG travel and second-life kind of VR Game.

177

References
Chatterjee, S., Moody, G. D., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2021). The nonlinear influence of harmonious information 
technology affordance on organisational innovation. Information Systems Journal, 31(3), 294–322. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12311
Chatterjee, S., Moody, G., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2015). Strategic relevance of organizational virtues enabled 
by information technology in organizational innovation. Journal of Management Information Systems, 32(3), 158–196. 
https://doi.org/10.1080/07421222.2015.1099180

Chatterjee, S., Moody, G., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, 
A. (2020). Information technology and organizational innovation: 
Harmonious information technology affordance and courage-based 
actualization. Journal of Strategic Information Systems, 29, 
101596. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsis.2020.101596

178

Rao, D. (2024, March 26). Mastering Pivots & Turnarounds: #1 Lesson From Under Armour, Hertz & 
Apple. Forbes. https://www.forbes.com/sites/dileeprao/2024/03/26/mastering-pivots--turnarounds-1-lesson-from-under-armour-hertz--apple/?sh=2ebc19f5afae
America’s Most Innovative Companies. (2024). Fortune. https://fortune.com/ranking/americas-most-innovative-companies/

Patnaik, D. (2024, March 24). Is It Time To Rethink Your Innovation Strategy? Forbes. 
Retrieved from https://www.forbes.com/sites/devpatnaik/2024/03/24/is-it-time-to-rethink-your-innovation-strategy/?sh=7090736f440a

Chapman, M., & The Associated Press. (2024, March 28). Home Depot’s largest acquisition ever is an $18.25 billion bet 
on the housing market’s severe shortage of new homes. Fortune. Retrieved 
from https://fortune.com/2024/03/28/home-depot-acquisition-srs-distribution-18-25-billion-housing-market/

179

Li, Y., and T. Chi. 2013. Venture capitalists’ decision to withdraw: The role of portfolio configuration from a real options lens. Strategic Management Journal 34: 1351-1366.
Li, Y. & J. Mahoney. 2011. When Are Venture Capital Projects Initiated? Journal of Business Venturing. 26(2): 239-254.
Tong, T. & Y. Li. 2011. Real Options and Investment Mode Decision: Evidence from Corporate Venture Capital and Acquisition. Organization Science. 22(3): 659-674
Courtney, C., Dutta, S., and Li, Y. 2017. Resolving information asymmetry: Signaling and crowdfunding success. Entrepreneurship Theory and Practice 41(2): 265-290.
Liu, Y., Y. Li, X. Hao, and Y. Zhang. 2019. Narcissism and entrepreneurial learning from Failure. Journal of Business Venturing. 34 (3), 496-512
Li, Y., S. Zahra and S. Lan. 2017. Heterogeneity in New Venture Formation Rates across Nations: The Schumpeterian and Institutional Economics Views. 
Entrepreneurial Finance: Managerial and Policy Implications. 1-35. Lead article
Li, Y., and E. Yao. 2019. All ties are not created equal: Institutional equity ties, IPO performance, and market growth of new ventures. In D. 
Cumming & S. Johan (ed.). Oxford Handbook of IPO
Wang, E. T. G., Hu, H.-f., & Hu, P. J.-H. (2013). Examining the role of information technology in cultivating firms’ dynamic marketing capabilities. 
Information & Management, 50(6), 336-343. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.im.2013.04.007
Randolph, R. V., Hu, H.-f., & Silvernail, K. D. (2020). Better the devil you know: Inter-organizational information technology and network social 
capital in coopetition networks. Information & Management. Advance online publication. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.im.2020.103344

180

Randolph, R. V., Hu, H., Silvernail, K. (2018). Knowledge Networking and 
Coopetition: The Role of Shared Technology in Promoting Goal Convergence. 
2018 Western Academy of Management Conference, 59 9.
Hu, H.-F., Moore, W. L., & Hu, P. J. (2024). Incorporating user perceptions and 
product attributes in software product design and evaluation. Journal of 
Information Technology, 36(2), 123-137.
Chatterjee, S., Chakraborty, S., Fulk, K., & Lowry, P. B. (2024). The role of 
dissonant relational multiplexity in information system implementation failures. 
Journal of the Association for Information Systems (JAIS). Advance online 
publication. https://aisel.aisnet.org/jais/vol25/iss2/1/
Chatterjee, S., Sarker, S., Lee, M. J., Xiao, X., & Elbanna, A. (2021). A possible 
conceptualization of the information systems (IS) artifact: A general systems theory 
perspective. Information Systems Journal, 31(4), 550-578. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12292
Oberlander, A. M., Roglinger, M., & Rosemann, M. (2021). Digital opportunities for 
incumbents – A resource-centric perspective. Journal of Strategic Information 
Systems. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsis.2021.101670
Capurro, R. (2017). Digitization as an ethical challenge. AI & Soc, 32(3), 
277–283. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00146-016-0686-z
Wessel, L., Baiyere, A., Ologeanu-Taddei, R., Cha, J., & Jensen, T. B. (2021). 
Unpacking the Difference Between Digital Transformation and IT-Enabled 
Organizational Transformation. Journal of the Association for Information 
Systems, 22(1), 102-129. https://doi.org/10.17705/1jais.00655
Bertoni, S. (2015, April 15). Twinkie's Miracle Comeback: The Untold, 
Inside Story of a $2 Billion Feast. 
Forbes. https://www.forbes.com/sites/stevenbertoni/2015/04/15/twinkie-billion-
dollar-comeback-hostess-metropoulos-apollo-jhawar/?sh=159db56e7235

181

I really should have just audited MIS 764 when I had the chance.
I'm irritated. nightmare.

4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges
4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems
4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:

4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work
4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review
Framework for conceptualizing digital innovation framework

Economics strategy and marketing
Digital object, digital technology has different uses and meanings depending 
on the social circles where it is being used. This results in products boundaries 
are fluid, and determined by social actors

Socio-Technical phenomenon.
Agency is distributed
Heterogeneous groups
Across industries
Across disciplines

182

Things are really not going well for me right now. and
that's putting it mildly. really mildly. disaster. what
a nightmare. everything. is a nightmare. has it ever not 
been a total nightmare?

4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference
4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents
Challenges for incumbents:
Existing infrastructure is considered old, and a liability
Incumbents have a resource advantage over new entrants, but 
their existing infrastructure can be considered old, and as 
a result, a liability.

Transformation of the old while transitioning, incumbents, 
applies to incumbents

183

I want to say that everything has more or less stopped for 
me right now. I'm in a strange spot with everything.

RBV - Resource Based View - extended into the customer context framework
Resource access over ownership
Presumers - consumers and producers at the same time, where users of a 
product both consume the product, and produce the product - Innovation 
partners and consumers. They have a multi-faceted role in the digital ecosystem.

This article was really - boring!
A digital artifact doesn’t give a reason for any given decision
	This might be true, but digital artifacts are also programmed, 
   so, it might not give a reason, but the reason can be traced 
   back to the programming of the digital artifact.

Extended Resource based view - enterprises that share resources. 
As partners, or through supplier and customer relationships

184

4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge

	How is digitalization - and digitization different?
	Digital ethics as a concept is somewhat new.
	Ethics and morality - Ethics is the problematization of morality. Michel foucault. 

(4/28) Module 4 										Group Paper

4.1.0 The Landscape of Emerging Technologies				Vicky
4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems		Vicky
4.1.2 Editorial Emergent Tech and Organizing			Vicky
4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:						Vicky
4.1.4 Quantum Computing and Information Systems		Vicky

185

I don't know where to begin. I mean. I really don't think I'm going 
to show up for any more classes. This semester was a disaster.

4.2. The Changing Nature of Work						            Kelly
4.2.1 Editorial Future of Work Organizations Society		   Kelly
4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work			         Kelly
4.2.3 Mental Health and Information Technology		         Kelly
4.2.4 Waging war from remote cubicles				            Kelly

(4/25) 4.3.0 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges 			Kenneth			Group Presentation
4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 					               Kenneth			Vicky
4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 					               Kenneth			Kelly
4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 			         Kenneth			Kenneth
4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 				         Kenneth			Kenneth

(5/5) Term Project
Topic: 
turn-arounds and pivots: leveraging organizational courage for high-risk innovation as an
alternative to the conventional approach of distressed asset sales and mass-layoffs

Implementation:

HITA Applications for Mergers & Acquisitions, Portfolio Management, and Equity Index Development
Create an equity index of publicly traded companies based on hita, different companies.  A list of 
companies will be assigned. Each assigned a HITA level. This will inform. The HITA equity Index will 
inform the M&A approach. Since the HITA impact on innovation is quadratic, we would use the absolute 
value of a company’s assigned HITA to rank companies within this index.

We can call it the 

Chatterjee 500 HITA Equity Index, 
but we might not be able to use the number 500, so it can actually be any number.

We might not be able to use numbers like

500 - S&P 500, the s&p
30 - Dow 30, dow jones industrial average, the dow
3000 - Russell 3000
5000 - WIlshire 5000
100 - NASDAQ 100, the nasdaq

186

I really have no idea how I'm going to bounce back from this.
this disaster of a semester.

Well, maybe not because there is a NASDAQ 100 and an S&P 100. So we might be able to use 500.
Topic: turn-arounds and pivots: leveraging organizational courage for high-risk innovation as 
an alternative to the conventional approach of distressed asset fire sales and mass-layoffs
intro/motivation: 

Exploratory innovation as a key turn-around / pivot strategy
Affordance level reappropriation of existing IP catalog as an ancillary strategy
Lit reviews

187

Case studies of failed companies
Case studies of notable turn-arounds & pivots
Twinkie turn-around (2013) by Sol Invictus 
Supply chain and distribution innovations
Product chemistry innovations
Examples of possible turn-arounds
theory/conceptualization 

188

I don't know where to begin. where to pick back up after. Everything kind of did not go well.
this first semester at UNLV. I still can't believe what a disaster my first semester at UTA was.

A company turn-around / pivot project is similar to a rehabilitation & renovation (fixer-upper) project in real estate
If we want to do last part:
We are co-owners of the Vicky Saab & Co. Special Purpose Acquisition Corporation. We will look at companies that we can 
buy and turn around. Smallest companies on the Russell 3000, for example: Travel + Leisure Co. (TNL) or Houghton Mifflin 
Harcourt Co. (HMHC) and create a VR Headset travel package, that could also be reappropriated in various additional ways: 
licensed to schools as a geography and history learning product, or a MMORPG travel and second-life kind of VR Game.

189

what a nightmare. what a nightmare. what an absolute nightmare. I don't know what to do really.

References

Chatterjee, S., Moody, G. D., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2021). The nonlinear 
influence of harmonious information technology affordance on organisational innovation. Information 
Systems Journal, 31(3), 294–322. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12311

Chatterjee, S., Moody, G., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2015). Strategic relevance 
of organizational virtues enabled by information technology in organizational innovation. Journal of 
Management Information Systems, 32(3), 158–196. https://doi.org/10.1080/07421222.2015.1099180

Chatterjee, S., Moody, G., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2020). Information technology 
and organizational innovation: Harmonious information technology affordance and courage-based actualization. 
Journal of Strategic Information Systems, 29, 101596. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsis.2020.101596
Rao, D. (2024, March 26). Mastering Pivots & Turnarounds: #1 Lesson From Under Armour, Hertz & Apple. 
Forbes. https://www.forbes.com/sites/dileeprao/2024/03/26/mastering-pivots--turnarounds-1-lesson-from-under-armour-hertz--apple/?sh=2ebc19f5afae
America’s Most Innovative Companies. (2024). Fortune. https://fortune.com/ranking/americas-most-innovative-companies/

Patnaik, D. (2024, March 24). Is It Time To Rethink Your Innovation Strategy? Forbes. Retrieved from 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/devpatnaik/2024/03/24/is-it-time-to-rethink-your-innovation-strategy/?sh=7090736f440a

190

I have no idea where to pick back up. I have no idea where to resume. where I left off.

Chapman, M., & The Associated Press. (2024, March 28). Home Depot’s largest acquisition 
ever is an $18.25 billion bet on the housing market’s severe shortage of new homes. Fortune. 
Retrieved from https://fortune.com/2024/03/28/home-depot-acquisition-srs-distribution-18-25-billion-housing-market/

Li, Y., and T. Chi. 2013. Venture capitalists’ decision to withdraw: The role of portfolio configuration from a real 
options lens. Strategic Management Journal 34: 1351-1366.

Li, Y. & J. Mahoney. 2011. When Are Venture Capital Projects Initiated? Journal of Business Venturing. 26(2): 239-254.
Tong, T. & Y. Li. 2011. Real Options and Investment Mode Decision: Evidence from Corporate Venture Capital and Acquisition. 
Organization Science. 22(3): 659-674

Courtney, C., Dutta, S., and Li, Y. 2017. Resolving information asymmetry: Signaling and crowdfunding success. Entrepreneurship 
Theory and Practice 41(2): 265-290.
Liu, Y., Y. Li, X. Hao, and Y. Zhang. 2019. Narcissism and entrepreneurial learning from Failure. Journal of Business Venturing. 
34 (3), 496-512
Li, Y., S. Zahra and S. Lan. 2017. Heterogeneity in New Venture Formation Rates across Nations: The Schumpeterian and Institutional 
Economics Views. Entrepreneurial Finance: Managerial and Policy Implications. 1-35. Lead article

191

I don't know. Well I'm in the process of consolidating repositories.
For this, I basically removed. or moved. I moved all of my files from 
my project 16 repository, and moved them into my main repository. This
push is actually taking a long time to upload.

Li, Y., and E. Yao. 2019. All ties are not created equal: Institutional equity ties, 
IPO performance, and market growth of new ventures. In D. Cumming & S. Johan (ed.). Oxford Handbook of IPO
Wang, E. T. G., Hu, H.-f., & Hu, P. J.-H. (2013). Examining the role of information technology in cultivating 
firms’ dynamic marketing capabilities. Information & Management, 50(6), 336-343. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.im.2013.04.007
Randolph, R. V., Hu, H.-f., & Silvernail, K. D. (2020). Better the devil you know: Inter-organizational information 
technology and network social capital in coopetition networks. Information & Management. Advance online publication. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.im.2020.103344

Randolph, R. V., Hu, H., Silvernail, K. (2018). Knowledge Networking and Coopetition: The Role of Shared Technology in 
Promoting Goal Convergence. 2018 Western Academy of Management Conference, 59 9.
Hu, H.-F., Moore, W. L., & Hu, P. J. (2024). Incorporating user perceptions and product attributes in software product 
design and evaluation. Journal of Information Technology, 36(2), 123-137.
Chatterjee, S., Chakraborty, S., Fulk, K., & Lowry, P. B. (2024). The role of dissonant relational multiplexity in 
information system implementation failures. Journal of the Association for Information Systems (JAIS). Advance online 
publication. https://aisel.aisnet.org/jais/vol25/iss2/1/
Chatterjee, S., Sarker, S., Lee, M. J., Xiao, X., & Elbanna, A. (2021). A possible conceptualization of the information 
systems (IS) artifact: A general systems theory perspective. Information Systems Journal, 31(4), 550-578. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12292

Oberlander, A. M., Roglinger, M., & Rosemann, M. (2021). Digital opportunities for incumbents – A resource-centric perspective. 
Journal of Strategic Information Systems. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsis.2021.101670
Capurro, R. (2017). Digitization as an ethical challenge. AI & Soc, 32(3), 277–283. https://doi.org/10.1007/s00146-016-0686-z

Wessel, L., Baiyere, A., Ologeanu-Taddei, R., Cha, J., & Jensen, T. B. (2021). Unpacking the Difference Between Digital Transformation 
and IT-Enabled Organizational Transformation. Journal of the Association for Information Systems, 22(1), 102-129. https://doi.org/10.17705/1jais.00655

Bertoni, S. (2015, April 15). Twinkie's Miracle Comeback: The Untold, Inside Story of a $2 Billion Feast. 
Forbes. https://www.forbes.com/sites/stevenbertoni/2015/04/15/twinkie-billion-dollar-comeback-hostess-metropoulos-apollo-jhawar/?sh=159db56e7235

192

but. um. I am really worried about the future right now. really 
worried. I guess I can work on my business. logging. I guess I can 
work on documenting and logging my business expenses while this 
commit and push takes forever to upload.

I'm going to delete the MIS76810032024Sprg repository as well.
I'm just going to start all over again. This is a surprisingly
large commit and push, all of this consolidation stuff that I'm 
working on right now.

I have to remember to delete my project 16 repository.
all the transfers have to be commited and pushed and uploaded.
and then I can go ahead and delete the project 16 repository,
but, it's taking forever to upload.

what am I thinking about? I'm frustrated about how this
first semester. there are a lot of things that really.
did not go right this first semester, and really add stress.
there is something kind of annoying going on right now.
Weekend Plans. I don't know where to start. nightmare.

Today is Friday, and I am already thinking about what I
want to do for the weekend.  What I think that I want to
do is cut your hair and donate it to the Salvation Army.

I'm irritated! really irritated at this moment!. I'm wondering
if I should have submitted a course audit for MIS 764 as well.
I did end up auditing, submitting a course audit for MIS 768.

The soldiers will use your hair to insulate the Salvation
submarines for when they go to war with the Devil and
his army of evil Satan worshipers who seek to corrupt 

the world and make everyone perverted and depraved.
When the war is over, you can grow your hair back and 
you will be beautiful again, but as long as the war effort

is the most important thing we focus on, you will have 
to be bald. We will even shave your yaya and it will be
bald as well, and that hair we will use as gun powder for

the Salvation cannons, that will blast the evil people apart
and rid the world of evil and depravity. It is the only way
and there is nothing else we can do in the meantime.

We must win this war, and I will shave my head and schlong
so that I will be there with you, sacrificing my hair for the
war effort, but as for this weekend, aside from shaving you,

I think that we should go out for lunch at a fancy restaurant
where the waiters are very patient, and the chefs can handle
as many strange requests as we make for our food, and after

lunch is over, we should catch a movie. A very long and
epic movie, and we will buy popcorn and burnt peanuts
and string cheese and super large cups of coke and pepsi,

depending on what they offer, and after we see the movie,
we should go out for dinner, and this restaurant will be 
lousy, because we spent all our money on lunch and popcorn

at the movies, and after dinner we should go hope and hop
into bed and go to sleep, or maybe we will stay awake and
make love, and eat popcorn in bed, and drink coke and pepsi.

American Express

I want an American Express credit card so bad.
I keep applying
	and they keep rejecting me
		for reasons I
can't figure out.
	my credit it lousy and I have
millions in debt, but that should
			be a good thing
it means
	that I spend      tons of money    and
that 	I can	spend 	all	the 	money
they can lend.
		LEND IT TO ME!!!
give me a CENTURION CARD and let me borrow
all the money that American Express has in reserves!!!
	It will be such a boost to the economy
			that we will
all have jobs, and production will increase.

Today we had an apple fritter and
a glass of milk and a cup of coffee 
for breakfast, the apple fritter was bland
and the coffee could have used some toffee.

I wonder what else the donut shop has:
do they have glazed donuts and donut holes?
chocolate donuts and all of that jazz?
and scrumptious donuts that fill patron's souls?

Bad bitches from across the universe
come to the donut shop on McKee Road
and recite incomprehensible verse
and poetry and prose by the boat load.

The donut shop on Mckee is the place
to be, and people come from every race.

193

this is taking an actual eternity to process.
I don't really know where to pick up after all
of this is done. I really don't. I really have no.
idea.

Drinking Whiskey Is Like Kissing A Woman
and I don't have the slightest clue
what to do about all of these things.
this stuff that I've moved around.
all. over. the place. and I have no idea.
what I'm going to do about MIS 764. I really don't.

After all the bars I've gone to, and all
the drinks I've had, I can say that drinking
whiskey is like kissing a woman. Fall
into a shot of whiskey while thinking

194

and I'm really. ready to say that. maybe this.
just really isn't for me. this might not be for me.
It really might not be for me. who knows.

about a woman who you'd love to kiss
and you'll find it a more than adequate
substitute for brining your tongue to bliss.
Not very many people would equate

I have no idea what's taking so long
for this commit and push to upload. it's really 
taking forever! like a million years almost!

A shot of whiskey to a kiss because
they have never tried it: I recommend
that they do. Longing for a kiss can cause
mental distress that's very hard to mend:

195

This was my. or this is my. this is what I submitted as my individual development plan for. that
I submitted to my program advisor at UNLV. It requested that I write about my successes and goals.
haha. it did not ask me to discuss my setbacks and failures!

I have a number of outgoing commits that are continuing to take an eternity to upload. this. is.
a headache unlike any other headache that I've had to deal with before. I wonder why this commit 
is taking so long to push and upload.

Greetings Yong Li, Ph.D. :

This email contains my individual development plan for 2024. I'm currently enrolled in the
entrepreneurship and innovation graduate certificate program, and I was not enrolled or admitted
to any program during the 2023 academic calendar.

My primary goal for the 2024 academic year is to file a patent before the end of the 2024
tax year. My accomplishments for the 2024 calendar year include increasing my intellectual
property catalog by 33%, which includes the registration of 2 software copyrights filed
while taking MIS 768 with Han-fen Hu, Ph.D. for applications submitted as assignments during
her course. I anticipate increasing my catalog by an additional 12% before the spring 2024
semester is completed.

On a longer time horizon, I would say that my entrepreneurial goal would be to create a kind of
holding company using the traditional structure, a CEF structure, or a SPAC structure, depending
on what's most appropriate for the organizational objectives of the holding company. I was inspired
by the conceptual framework, HITA, introduced by Sutirtha Chatterjee, Ph.D. in his MIS 764 course.
I've included initial draft work of a term project below.

   (5/5) Term Project
   Topic:
   turn-arounds and pivots: leveraging organizational courage for high-risk innovation as an
   alternative to the conventional approach of distressed asset sales and mass-layoffs

   Implementation:

   HITA Applications for Mergers & Acquisitions, Portfolio Management, and Equity Index Development
   Create an equity index of publicly traded companies based on hita, different companies.  A list of
   companies will be assigned. Each assigned a HITA level. This will inform. The HITA equity Index will
   inform the M&A approach. Since the HITA impact on innovation is quadratic, we would use the absolute
   value of a company’s assigned HITA to rank companies within this index.

   We can call it the

   Chatterjee 500 HITA Equity Index,
   but we might not be able to use the number 500, so it can actually be any number.

   We might not be able to use numbers like

   500 - S&P 500, the s&p
   30 - Dow 30, dow jones industrial average, the dow
   3000 - Russell 3000
   5000 - WIlshire 5000
   100 - NASDAQ 100, the nasdaq

   Well, maybe not because there is a NASDAQ 100 and an S&P 100. So we might be able to use 500.

Sincerely,

Kenneth Larot Yamat

196

my idea is that I will dismantle all of my repositories, other than my main repository.
I tried this before and it failed spectacularly, but this time I'm going about it differently,
everything is going to break. I know that much, but I think I can live with that. the mistake 
i made last time was to move the repository folder for my other repositories directly into my 
main repository it created a weird problem. kind of like an infinite loop problem, but that's 
I'm not sure if it was exactly that, but. like it never seemed to stop updating.

It's been written about in all kinds of 
insane lunatic poems about love.

Draino

I bought a multi-pack of drain cleaner and poured all the
bottles down the drain.  I think that this should do it, but
I can't be sure.  I want clean drains more than anything in
life, even more than world peace.  I think that the next 
Miss America or Miss Universe should be picked on the
basis of wheter or not she likes clean drains.

197

what on earth am I thinking about. well. I want to clean up my 
repositories, and then continue working on my coursework for MIS 
764 and MIS 768.

Inheritance allows programmers to create new classes using previously 
created classes without duplicating methods and attributes established 
in the inherited class. For example, if I wanted to create CurryDuck, 
PanangDuck, and SatayDuck, I could create these new classes by extending 
from an existing class called Duck without duplicating attributes like 
veryDelicious: true and hasBeenCooked: true.

Polymorphism occurs after inheritance, and it allows different classes 
to be treated similarly based on a common inheritance. Using my previous 
example: CurryDuck, PanangDuck, and SatayDuck would inherit from the Duck 
class, but starting with CurryDuck, I might have something like a preparation() 
method as part of the CurryDuck subclass, this preparation() method would change 
in the PanangDuck class and again in the SatayDuck class, but these different 
classes, CurryDuck, PanangDuck, and SatayDuck would be treated similarly to each 
other, but differently from classes like MuttonBriyani, BucheMenudo and 
SalmonSashimi because of their common inheritance from the Duck class.

I enrolled in a web development bootcamp through an employer funded 
education reimbursement program. You can check out some of my projects on

I like these meme because it reminds me of a debate I had about whether or 
not different colors of froot loops have different flavors. I still take the 
position that the different colored froot loops have different flavors.

I'm looking forward to learning a lot of new things and developing new 
skills and getting a good grade in this course.

Jesus. I'm actually reading this poem that I wrote from.
god. I have no idea how old this poem is. 2017 maybe.
and that was actually kind of a funny first stanza. I'm.
really amused by some of my old writing. strange stuff though.

When people become obsessed with the next person to 
release a sex-tape, we will acquire the rights to sell the 
sex-tape in nations abroad.  People will pay a forture to
us to see it, and we will be super rich.  The development
of the wealth of a country is entirely dependent on the
quality of it's sex tapes, which should include all the nastiest
acts that can be performed.

198

I'm really tired. I napped for a few hours, but I didn't get any actual sleep.

I have some unrelated good news. I don't have to enroll in. I don't have to
worry about enrolling in classes at UNLV until late november,

this means i can just focus on the stuff i already had going on

the software development class ends mid november. so i'll have some time to 
loaf around or something. well, even if. the spring semester at UNLV wouldn't start until 
next year. i think. so i would still have december to loaf around. 

assuming i'm still unemployed.

I'm tired and I really don't know where to start

Project 12 beat me to death, and Project 13 is already due tomorrow.
nightmare. total. nightmare.

I mentioned the copyright idea to this young woman I work with. I 
mentioned how I'm sort of skeptical that anything I write is super 
sellable. I mentioned that it was more of a bucket list activity 
than a commercial activity.

199

[start]

I don't remember when I wrote this. oh. this was four years ago, 
when I first moved to Arlington, TX. Yeah, four years ago.

I had two limit orders process, this kind of worries me, and to 
confirm my worries, my portfolio was down about 400 bucks today. 
Nightmare, but the larger of the two orders was for a preferred 
shares ETF, so I'm too worried about that one. They don't seem to 
fluctuate upward too much, and they hover at the same price year 
over year, the only opportunities I see with those funds are with 
the dividends, and during these market drops where I can by them 
at a discount to what they usually go for.

[end]

I ran into the young lady I mentioned the whole copyright idea to 
at the gas station, this happened before, and the last time I was 
too shy to approach her, but this time I did. I said hello as she 
was getting gasoline, and I was shocked by how much her bill was.
Another limit order was just processed. Holy shit.

well. since i mentioned the whole copyright thing to her i think 
that i am now stuck to it. i have to go through with filing a copyright. 
getting a copyright is not for bragging rights. it's just about checking 
that box off on my bucket list. i'm going to write her a poem.

200

this is still taking forever to commit and push. i don't know what to do.
once all of these files are transferred into my main repository, and.
once all of the other repositories are dismantled, and their files are 
transferred to my main repository, I will start. I will continue working 
on my MIS 764 and 768 course work.
[* * *&quot;Notes on Blogging&quot; by Kenneth Larot Yamat]
["Facebook Comment" by Kenneth Larot Yamat]

Loneliness is a killer.
Who listens? No one.
No one cares about
What you have to say.

So start blogging! It is
The best! No one reads!
And no one cares! Put
It somewhere. Your thoughts
And all that!

guess what? i will get a copyright this
weekend. this actually feels sooner than
i really want to do it, and it is
sooner than i want it done, and i can

wait a few more weeks, and the issue will 
be just as important in the future
as it is now, but i actually feel 
like giving you an update much sooner,

201

rather than three weeks or a month after
i first mentioned it to you, and you might ask
about it, and I'm hoping to answer 
your hoped for question with something other

than: "i haven't done a fucking thing yet,
I've been all talk ever since we first met."

This space was used to write a poem, 
this poem has been removed.

202

I'm trying to figure out what on earth all of this is. 
all of this writing. I'm really not sure.

Three things are for the four things are the three things are the 
fourth and chickens are the turtles with the frogs and here are the 
oranges that came in the crates of citrus fruits delivered from the 
truck with the oranges and the lemons and you should know that this 
is incoherent and incomprehensible. Do not try to decipher this note 
because you will be lost in the world of confusing statements that 
are both incoherent and incomprehensible. Thank you for your time 
and understanding.
Here are some screenshots of spam emails that I received recently.

Right now I'm just trying to set up my account with the Copyright Office, 
and the form is just not going through. It times out and then the information 
I used to set up my account is lost.

203

This is taking an eternity to commit and push. a real. eternity. and I'm not 
sure why. There were a hell of a lot of files in some of these repositories, and 
it had to do with some of the javascript libraries. in many cases I think I would
opt to use a CDN, rather than put the whole library on or in my repository.
I was able to finally set up my account after failing several times.

Westport. What a nightmare. Stock market crap. Make the best of it. I guess. 
I have other things that I want to copyright, but I thought it was important 
to get at least something done there. There are better ways to optimize the 
quantity of material I get copyrights for relative to the amount of money I spend.

I only put in a copyright for one poem, but I could have put in a copyright for 
all the poems I wrote so far, in one file, I just needed to use a different application to do so.

I should have done that, and I guess I will do that next time.
I need to shave my face and head. I usually don't do it every day, 
especially when I do work that isn't customer facing.

I just deleted a bunch of emails, not important emails, just spam emails, 
and social media, and promotional emails. That was it really. I wanted to 
look through them, but there is a time when they aren't really useful anymore. 
Well, I wasn't planning on buying anything, and I don't want to peruse the 
useless emails to see what is amusing and not amusing, in fact, I still haven't 
gotten around to writing any poems based on prospectus documents.

This isn't healthy. None of it. Super unhealthy. And yet 
I let it take over my brain. I really. Do.
I should work on something.
Honestly. College isn't something I want to do again, 
unless it's fucking free.

And writing. It's pointless. I think. I don't trying this again is really going to go anywhere. 
Fucking. Again. I can't even believe that I might try this again. Maybe just another wasted year 
or two. Stupid. Stupid. Really fucking stupid. Might as well. Maybe not. I don't know.
Stupid.

I would rather not. you know. Think about it. it was a nightmare. and it
continues to be a total nightmare. worse than anything.
I don't know what to do.

204

I think that part of what is taking so long here is that.
something. I think that this may have been a wordpress local website
that I built during my course.

The water in my apartment isn't working. I was going to take a shower and shave. I can only 
really shave while taking a shower. However, my water isn't running. I saw the maintenance 
guy park his vehicle outside my building, so I'm guessing that he has come here to fix it.

This commit is taking an absolute eternity to push.
nightmare! I was reading a few of my sonnets that I wrote 
and submitted as projects or assignments for my MIS 764 
course.

I don't know what to do in terms of my future. 
I should have stayed in Missouri, but I'm not there any more.

I had the money to go to college. I could have 
found some other job in Missouri.

Things in Missouri weren't really falling apart for me. 
It felt like they were, but I don't think that they were 
exactly. So I'm not sure why I left.

This is where I have to make the best of it here in Texas. 
I know that I know that I'm in a better situation than. Well. 
I know I'm not in a completely hopeless situation, but sometimes it feels that way.

I made revisions to a poem I posted here earlier. I either want to 
make one long poem out of this set, or have a ten sonnet series.

205

D:\GitHub\kennethlarotyamat.github.io\media\text\March 2024\The Chronicles of Chestnut and Hazel.txt
I had to undo several commits, and then stage the changes, and then re-commit 
and push. I think that this might work. This might work, but it still might 
take a total eternity. Like a real eternity. forever. and ever. and I 
was finally able to get rid of so many repositories. I don't know how.
I'm going to sort all of this stuff out.

I shaved my head
Letters from the Conoco Station
this space was used to write a poem, the poem 
has been deleted from this blog.

206

// Update 10292023 0229
This file will no longer be updated as of 10/13/2023 @ 12:00 PM
it will be updated directly in the HTML page, and can be found here:
https://kennethlarotyamat.github.io/other/chestnutandhazelsgithubadventures.html
Adventure # 6 - 10/12/2023 20:47

I. was actually. at the seven eleven. but i have 
this issue where I would have to write Seven Eleven, 
rather than 7-11. Just as a matter of style, Conoco 
Station has the same syllable count, and a similar 
ring to Seven Eleven.

207

[start]

I am exhausted. I have a meeting tomorrow regarding admission to UNLV. I have to figure this out. It's not
clear to me what we will be discussing. I don't know how many times I've sent transcripts and submitted
applications to UNLV, and all that.

I think that this meeting was
originally with someone from the MSQF 
department at UNLV. he would follow up 
with me later, but I decided to pursue 
a different program.

[end]

208

This is a nightmare. I had to undo several commits, and now I'm uploading them 
a few. I'm re-commiting them a few at a time. I'm not sure what the point of all 
of this is. I just need to get it all together, and then figure it out from there.

I don't know what's on my mind exactly. I'm tired. Going back to work for those two weeks or whatever. It made
me realize that. I don't know. Like. Working in a factory or a warehouse is going to be just another dead end.
It's never really gone anywhere, and, as far as I can tell, it's not really going to go anywhere.

209

[start]

I'm trying to think. I'm reading this stanza below. and. I remember this. it wasn't all that long ago. 
I think I more or less stopped interviewing after this. in fact. I've made up. or I'd made up my mind.
never to interview again.

I remember going into one interview recently and, there was this kind of weird moment where, the interviewer
seemed to. Well, she stated that she was looking for someone who was looking to stay with the organization for
the next 20 years or something. and I was thinking. I was thinking later, but. do I really plan 20 years ahead?
do I have a 20 year plan? because I already know that I don't have a 20 year plan, but if I did have a 20 year plan
or, something. I sure as hell wouldn't be interviewing for your company. you know.

[end]

210 

This is going to take a total eternity!
It really will!

211

I'm really starting 
to feel overwhelmed again.
well. let's see how this goes.
nightmare!

212

I don't even really want to do anything 
right now. I really don't!

213

Citing a Syllabus: Professor's surname, First initial. (Year of Course) Course number: 
Course title [Syllabus]. Location: Institution Name.
References: https://www.chegg.com/writing/features/citation-generator/how-to-cite-syllabus

214

what. a. headache.
what. a. disaster.

this repository is officially fucked!
the whole damn thing!

215

The last time I tried to do this. it was a total disaster.
and this time. it's another disaster.

It's a different disaster, but yet 
another disaster.

216

I don't have the slightest clue how this disaster 
is going to be resolved. I really don't. what a nightmare!

217

I don't know what came over me, but the sudden 
urge to consolidate my repositories turned out 
to be a disaster! see where this goes.

218

I wonder if it's the fabulously 
slow internet connection. 
but. the internet connection 
isn't actually that slow.
I don't know what it is.
it could be anything.

it might be better just not to worry
about all of this.
at this point most of all of this is.
junk!

I don't want to nap, 
and I don't want to 
stay up. I don't know 
what I want really.

219

A few more photographs, and things that I need to take note of for the near future. 
It's going to be 65 dollars for a standard copyright, and I can use that to copyright 
a collection of poems, but I have to organize it in a specific way. I have to research that more,

and then 85 dollars to copyright a group of up to 10 unpublished poems, and I'm working on that set right now.
This area was used to spell check a stanza. The stanza has been deleted.
Notes from horses

This was pretty cool. I had unredeemed points from one of my credit cards. I redeemed them 
just now. It was more than I was expecting, and that was pretty nice.
The Hibiscus Plant
This space was used for writing a poem. This poem has been deleted.

220

I don't know
why on earth I'm wasting all
this time doing this garbage!

this is a waste of time.
and I sure as hell know it!
why am I doing it?

03032024 0309 GitHub - MIS768_edu_unlv_mis768_kly_individualassignment3_
ParcelTerminalDemo.java - Eclipse IDE 2024-03-03 02-57-27 - Made with Clipchamp
03032024 0410 GitHub - MIS768_edu_unlv_mis768_kly_individualassignment3_
ParcelTerminalDemo.java - Eclipse IDE 2024-03-03 03-53-13 - Made with Clipchamp
/tos - Coffee Meets Bagel - I didn't sign up for that did I?
I don't ever want to think about dating again. jesus.

I have no idea. well I do know.
I don't know why I had to consolidate this r. I don't know why 
I felt the need to consolidate these various repositories.
It's not clear to me how these were pushed in the first place.

I think that I'm losing my mind right now.
I think that I was able to reset much of this,
but it's kind of messed up now. Everything.
I wonder where all of this went wrong? nightmare! 

I have 5 poems ready that I want to copyright under the unpublished category. 
I need five more. I don't want to write about food. 

221

oh jesus. I think I know what all of 
these stupid things are. 
I installed whatever program.
into the repository. stupid! 

I've done this a couple times.
okay. so here is my list of screw ups:
I installed wordpress inside the respository.
I installed the java GUI in the repository.
I installed react inside the repository.
stupid!

Lately I've just been eating bratwurst and sliders, and tacos from Jack in 
the Box. Nothing exciting. Nothing to write about. I did that crap before. 
When I took 2 years off to write. The mistake was. I was basically just 
staying home, and going to class.

222

good lord. and I just fucked up again. 
I think that I just commited and synched 
something like 50000 files all at one.
and I'm not sure that this is going to work.
I think that this is going to be a disaster!

I wonder why I never wrote poems about integrals 
and derivatives. I don't know if math is just a subject I'm 
lousy at, or if I was just in a daze due to the medicine I was taking.

Who knows. I wouldn't know. I'm not a medicine man. 

223

well all things that go 
and become a disaster.
are those things that 
go terribly wrong! 
and this all goes wrong! 
in a major way.

224

Jesus. I probably should have just 
left all of this alone rather than 
dig into it and try to mess with things.
this did not go well. it really. 
did not go well.

I feel pretty well rested. I got back home 
at around 2:00 PM yesterday, and I've slept 
on and off since getting 
back home. I have about 3 hours before 
I head out to work.

225

it fucking worked!
well. not worked. I mean.
it's done!

I went to seven eleven and had four sliders and a huge cup of Coke Zero. I noticed that the fountains at all the 
gas stations rarely carry diet pepsi any more, and it's almost no wonder. diet pepsi foams up way too much, and 
the filling process for the cups is a lot of start and stop.

226

good god. well. I have a meeting 
later today with the disability resource 
center at school. I've

really haven't felt this garbage 
in a while. well. maybe I 
always feel like garbage.

I haven't felt this lousy in a while. I feel horrible.
Yeah. I don't even know. I'm on a mailing list for several 
news letters, some of which are content aggregators. 

I was going through my email inbox and spam and promotions boxes.
unhappiness is something that is. it's the kind of thing that hangs 
out and. it's the kind of thing that persists.

227

that was just the beginning 
of where all things started to be
and where the changes started to happen.
when the oranges were squeezed.

it was true that all of these things 
were all of where they needed to be 
but this is where they were not and 
how often do people change into new
ideas?

They need to stop sending me articles 
about true and undying love and all 
this horseshit. It's not pissing me off 
or anything, it's just, I know what kind 
of ideas are in these articles, and I 
know exactly what kind of idiotic 
thoughts I'm going to have, and exactly 
what kind of moronic actions I'm going 
to take.

228

and then there were new ideas that 
were conceived the way Children slide 
out of the body. new ideas.

well. I made a mistake there. well.
maybe not.

An Argument for Electric Vehicles
This area was used to write a poem, 
this poem has been removed.
Well. I guess this puts me at 6 total 
poems that I can submit to the Copyright office.

229

you are
reading this.
and that is obvious.

and I want to ask you:
what do you think about
rabbit holes?

a rabbit hole is no
ordinary hole.
because it's where

the rabbits are!
so be aware that 
there might be
CARROTS HERE!

you are
reading this.
and that is obvious.

and I want to ask you:
what do you think about
rabbit holes?

a rabbit hole is no
ordinary hole.
because it's where

the rabbits are!
so be aware that 
there might be
CARROTS HERE!

maybe it has always been a rule that 
when you start to eat chickens, the 
mayonnaise starts to get warm. what 
is your opinion on warm mayonnaise? 
well. that's when it all happened. four 
of them made more of the best of them all. 
and half of them traded into the best of them.
well, so we all went there. and we all 
over reported how many sandwiches we ate 
because we did not want anyone to think 
that we were sissies.

It has been fifteen minutes since I 
last posted something on this blog. 
My mind isn't racing, exactly, but 
I'm in a weird mood. Not super weird, 
but the kind of mood where. I'm think 
too many things at once. A few things 
at once. Many things at once. I have no idea. 

There were some cool deals on magazines that 
I found on my Citibank credit card, but I have 
to check them out and see how they work. Some 
magazines are practically free. I've been wanting 
to get my hands on some better reading material. 
I feel like everything I read is in the moment.

230

I have to get back into the swing of things.
well. i never really got out of it. I had other 
things that I needed to work on.

I'm slowly getting together a file for all the 
previously posted poems that I can submit to the 
copyright office. This is the best thing that I 
can think of to do with my time. I don't really 
have any ideas for what to write for my unpublished 
submission that I'm preparing for the copyright office. 
I have 6 poems so far.

231

yeah what is all of this. 
I haven't fallen asleep. i 
think that I came home. maybe 
around 11. i have plenty of time. 
you know. to get things done. 
these hours where. i can't fall 
asleep. wasted hours.

232

thiswasconfusingbecausetheiassociatethehapsburgswiththe
holyromanempirebutthehapsburgsrulledtheaustriohungarian
empireaswellScreenshot 2024-01-24 031925

thiswasconfusingbecausetheiassociatethehapsburgswiththe
holyromanempirebutthehapsburgsrulledtheaustriohungarian
empireaswellScreenshot 2024-01-24 031925

I didn't know that the length of a file name would 
ever be an issue. for whatever reason I wasn't able to 
add comments to the image file, so I just added my comments 
to the file name.

233

Strange mood. Like. Why is your brain running around in 
circles, bouncing off the walls, bouncing off ideas that 
don't make a whole hell of a lot of sense.

I'm accumulating a lot of things that I'm really just 
eventually going to throw away anyway. One is the frightening 
number of facemasks that I had on my desk. A huge stack. A 
really huge stack. I shoved them in my closet, in case I need 
them later. I'm hoping that this whole situation dies down soon. 
Who knows. Maybe this will go on forever.

It's almost strange seeing some people going around not wearing masks. 
It irritates me that I have to wear one, and that for them, wearing a 
mask doesn't seem to be being enforced.

Plant Fertilizer

When you break down the costs of things. Sometimes
the silly things that you do turn out to be
more expensive than you really thought that they should be.

And that is how
you can run into
problems when planning your
budget.

You can plan as
best as you can
and things still turn out
to be

dumber than you could have
ever imagined.

Vitamin Pills for Plants

234

Concerns:				A digital artifact doesn’t give a reason for any given decision
                     This might be true, but digital artifacts are also programmed, so, 
                     it might not give a reason, but the reason can be traced back to the programming of the digital artifact.

ERBV:					Extended Resource based view- enterprises that share resources. As partners, or through supplier 
					   and customer relationships

Opportunity Conversion:	



Platform technologies: 	Conducts business without hardly any resources involved - netflix uber Airbnb
					         This relates to that other article that mentioned that most disruptions are usually business 
						      model disruptions, rather than technology related.

Incumbents:			Have a resource advantage but this advantage is also often considered a liability because existing 
                  resources are often considered old.
	
                  Pursue evolutionary and revolutionary change - exploratory and exploitative innovation -  
	               incremental and major innovations

This article was really - boring!
The text-reader has a new voice.
I don't even remember how to start a new project 
in eclipse.

i almost thought about
leaving for work right
about now, but I realized 
that there probably would
be a lot of traffic right now.

235

This has been 
where the new 
lines are
written!

I went to my appointment with the disability 
resource center on campus. I'm not sure how useful 
these accommodations will be.

Programming - I'm going to worry about that later.
I'm not sure if I'll ever come back to this.
it really does going into the filing cabinet
along with bronze working. I took that bronze working 
shit for like 2 years and I was never conferred anything 
higher than a C.

Summer School - I'm somewhat reluctant to continue with
my plan of taking 2 courses during the summer. this could 
potentially be risky. or maybe it is risky, and I'm thinking 
that I shouldn't risk it.

but maybe it will be fine.
but maybe everything will be fabulous.
who knows.

ERBV:					Extended Resource based view - enterprises that share resources. As partners, or through supplier 
					   and customer relationships - Resource access over ownership - RBV - Resource Based View - 
					   extended into the customer context framework

There usually is. there
is usually quite a bit of traffic
going on right now.
especially on friday.

for some reason there isn't 
much traffic going on during
the rest of the week.

this doesn't seem like a really
trendy
part of the Dallas / Fort Worth
area.

236

Presumers:				consumers and producers at the same time, where users of a product both consume the product, 
					      and produce the product - Innovation partners and consumers. They have a multi-faceted role in 
					      the digital ecosystem.



Concerns:				A digital artifact doesn’t give a reason for any given decision
                     This might be true, but digital artifacts are also programmed, 
                     so, it might not give a reason, but the reason can be traced back to the programming of the digital artifact.

Digital Technologies - a more general term for information technology

ERBV:					Extended Resource based view - enterprises that share resources. As partners, or through supplier 
					   and customer relationships - Resource access over ownership - RBV - Resource Based View - 
					   extended into the customer context framework

Opportunity Conversion:	   Starts with opportunity Identification



Platform technologies: 	   Conducts business without hardly any resources involved - netflix uber Airbnb
					            This relates to that other article that mentioned that most disruptions are usually business 
						         model disruptions, rather than technology related.

Incumbents:			Have a resource advantage but this advantage is also often considered a liability because existing 
                  resources are often considered old.
	
                  Pursue evolutionary and revolutionary change - exploratory and exploitative innovation -  
                  incremental and major innovations

                  Digital Information related to or precursor of Digital transformation

                  Transformation of the old while transitioning, incumbents, applies to incumbents

                  Existing infrastructure is considered old, and a liability

                  Incumbents have a resource advantage over new entrants, but their existing infrastructure can 
                  be considered old, and as a result, a liability.

where the fries change back 
into potatoes and 
where the fries change 
back into roots of the 
trees of where the breakfast 
hashbrowns change into french fries 

while they all change 
back into potatoes!

Come back around to that one later.

I could really go for some
jack in the box tacos
right about now.

237

what the heck? well. I'm kind of tired right now, 
and I'm about to shut down.
nap and sleep and whatever.

I'm trying to think: 
what was the idea behind taking 
2 classes during the summer? 
I think the idea was that. if by some miracle 
I were to get straight A's that would kind of
offset the disaster that Spring 2024 has turned 
out to be.

I really felt like she
was looking out for 
me these past few years
but
i guess not
stupid

238

but what if summer school doesn't 
really turn out that way? 
what if summer school is a disaster? 
then it's basically game over. 

this isn't like being an undergrad 
where. I can take 18 units a semester. 9 units 
during the winter. 9 units during the summer, and 
kind of pad my transcripts.

taking 6 units a semester creates 
quite a bit of risk, but. that's 
all I really have money for. so. 
that's the way it goes.

i wonder who
it could have been

maybe
i've been looking
out for my self all
this time
yeah
ive been looking out for 
myself
Dirty Socks Smell like Methamphetamine 

but chickens turn into
ducks when they are at the pond.
and they start to fly around 
the pond.

239

how often can there be new 
ideas that come out of the brain. 
how often are there new brains 
inside of a person's head? 
new ideas, and new brains?

Trying to figure things out. There are 
a hell of a lot of things that I'm 
somewhat resentful of.

A lot of my little projects don't 
really materialize into much.

I have my reservations about doing this 
poetry crap again, even if this time I'm 
taking a slightly different approach.

I have the same reservations when it 
comes to pursing graduate school, or 
a second bachelor's degree or any 
additional education.

And I have the same reservations about 
trying to do any dating or anything like that. 

Some pursuits just monopolize my. everything 
I can possibly think of, and then turn out 
not to be very fruitful.

I don't even know. and I will never know.
and maybe oranges change into 
orange juice and lemons into lemonade.
when life gives you oranges 
make orange juice!

What was it? I guess I came across someone 
who was kind of disillusioned about. I guess. 
Life. oranges change into tangerines often.

240

I have to attend a number 
of events at school 
in order to get credit for 
one of my classes. 
in fact. the only class 
that I have a chance for 
getting credit for.

there is a bunch of stuff I really need 
to get done, and I'm not getting around 
to getting it done.

saw the
social worker
today
and the recommendation was
to just apply for medicaid
and get on disability again

241

i need something 
more like a new 
kind of citrus 
to make 
a new kind of juice 
to make a new kind of 
lemonade!

i want to find a job again
i want to work, but i guess
this might make more
sense

242

this might be a kind of
around the bush
around the fur
indirect way to do things

i would find a job before
i would find myself on disability
again

how can there be more people 
than there are oranges on 
a tree on the branches how?
this is a little bit silly

but there are a few things i
need to sort out first

i need to pay the 
car insurance

ablornia changes things 
into a Jorbalia # 33 by 
Kenneth Larot Yamat but 
there can be places.
Passwords annoy the shit 
out of me. I know we need 
them, but there are so many. 
Even if most of 

them have a similar basis, 
they aren't all the same, 
and I never know which one 
goes with which website.
Letters from Sanford Street
there was something 
here and it was something 
that I don't exactly 

want to think about 
or remember 
again.

243

There are some things 
that I don't want to 
remember, or think about 
ever again. I don't 
want to think about or 
remember anything that 
happened the last time.

There was a clerk at the Seven Eleven that I go to after work who asked me where I work. This was 
several weeks ago. I told him about working at the airport, and suggested that he apply. I haven't 
seen him in a while, and I wonder if he did that. I used to see him every day.

244

Thinking about what a 
disaster this semester 
has turned out to be.

I'm still debating about 
if I should or should not 
take summer school.

There are a number of events that I have 
to attend this semester, over the next few
weeks as a course requirement. I just really 
hope that nothing goes wrong during the summer 
semester.

245

I haven't really gotten anything done in a while. 
even though I think that the MIS 768 course material 
would be useful, since I'm not. Since I'm auditing 
the course, I figure that it makes sense not to really 
do anything for the course any more. It makes sense not 
to dedicate any time to it if I can allocate that time 
to something else.

I want to continue gathering up my old poems from this blog for a single file to submit to the 
copyright office, but I'm just. Some of these I just can't read. Jesus.

246

I had to deal with this trademark stuff 
earlier today. It was basically: I had to 
amend the initial application.

500 - S&P 500, the s&p
30 - Dow 30, dow jones industrial average, the dow
3000 - Russell 3000
5000 - WIlshire 5000
100 - NASDAQ 100, the nasdaq

Well, maybe not because there is a NASDAQ 100 and an S&P 100. So we might be able to use 500.
I don’t know where to put this:
Create a model similar to the Zaibatsu of the Meiji Restoration, but rather than have a bank 
as the central actor, with credit as the force that ties the different businesses together, 
we would have a model where a university is the central actor, and innovation is the force 
that ties the businesses together, or creates inter-dependencies.

	Chatterjee 36 HITA Equity Index
	Chatterjee M&A Laboratories, INC
		Chatterjee Holdings Block A, Corp
			Target Companies 1-12
		Chatterjee Holdings Block B, Corp
			Target Companies 13-24
		Chatterjee Holdings Block C, Corp
			Target Companies 25-36
	Yong Li Venture Capital Laboratories, LP
		If a company cannot be acquired, then this organization would create new companies that would stand in for the 
		company that could not be acquired.
		For Example: suppose target company 17 is a bottling company, but for one reason or another it cannot be acquired, then
		We would create a bottling company through Yong Li VC Partners, LP from UNLV Student Business Proposal 232 and then 
		Chatterjee Holdings Block B, Corp would Acquire that company as an alternative.
	Han-fen Hu High-frequency Trading Laboratories, LP
		Suppose target company 29 has less than ideal trading characteristics, the Han-fen Hu High-frequency Trading 
		Laboratories, LP would increase volume and narrow bid-ask spreads for the equities of the target company using as few 
		shares as possible. The corresponding Equity derivatives could be targeted after the underlying equities have been 
		stabilized. 
	Lisa R. Davis Fixed-Asset Trust Laboratories, INC
		I imagine this being structured as a REIT, 
			with a DR Horton or Greystone Lennar component as a subsidiary
				Would experiment with post-frame, modular, pre-fabricated, and additive construction techniques 
		Target Companies would relocate their headquarters to one of the various cities in Clark County.
Topic: turn-arounds and pivots: leveraging organizational courage for high-risk innovation as an alternative to the 
conventional approach of distressed asset fire sales and mass-layoffs
intro/motivation: 
Exploratory innovation as a key turn-around / pivot strategy
Affordance level reappropriation of existing IP catalog as an ancillary strategy

247

good lord. thank god for that. 
sometimes when I change things.
it ends up changing other things.
and sometimes other things have 
changed in the meantime, making 
it harder to fix.

but I managed to figure this issue out 
and how the issue is resolved.

I don’t know where to put this:

chickens, different companies.  be assigned. Each 
ducks. This
turkies. The HITA equity Index will inform 

248

my copyright registration for 
my poem was sent to me. and it 
was in the mail baby! it really 
was and it is nice! I love it.
it was for my poem 

this is just to say 
something about the 
young housewife. 2023

249

my mind is all over the place 
and I can't really concentrate.
this is a nightmare. and I'm tired.
all the time and never get anything 
done.

Create an equity index of publicly traded companies based on hita; a list of companies will be 
compiled and each company will be assigned a HITA level which will inform the M&A approach. Since 
the HITA impact on innovation is quadratic, we would use the absolute value of a company’s assigned 
HITA to rank companies within this index.

250

changes are being made and the end is in sight 
and the beginning is where the end is and where 
the changes cannot be made where the oranges 
have been squeeze and the lemons have been 
squeezed as well.

Topic: turn-arounds and pivots: leveraging organizational courage for high-risk innovation 
as an alternative to the conventional approach of distressed asset fire sales and mass-layoffs

I just would have liked for things to have turned out differently with the whole. I don't what 
I should refer to it as, but let's call it, the <Text Deleted> situation. Yeah. I would have 
liked that to have turned out differently. And. How do I say this. I don't think it's going to 
turn out any way other than the way it has thus far turned out. If that makes any sense whatsoever.

I threw away another belt that just didn't fit. So I had 2 belts left. Both dressy belts. I'm wearing 
one. These aren't very heavy duty and they usually break easy.
