Module 3: IT-Enabled Innovation 

3.1: The Relation Between It And Organizational Innovation 

1: The Role Of It In Organizational Innovation
 
correlations: 	number of servers to firm performance
computing capacity to firm performance
storage capacity to firm performance
number of patents to it investments
it expertise and firm performance
patents filed to commercialized products
moderate competition stimulates innovation
intense competition depresses innovation

variables:		productivity 
sales performance 
profitability 
value added 
stock returns 
return on investment
Economies of scale
Architectural flexibility
Diminishing returns
Limited impact

influences:		firm alignment and orientation
			posture
			governance
			internal conflict
			internal and external context
group conflict hinders adoption
actively fostering innovation
informal mechanisms
industry dynamics
gender diversity
Knowledge integration
Key actors

frameworks:	resource based view
			capabilities based perspective
industry convergence
Organizational innovation system

cases:			polaroid - misalignment
			xerox - failure to capitalize
			yahoo - failure to capitalize
			hospitality incumbents - dismissive of disruptors
			pharmaceutical companies - r&d failures lead to patent
acquisition resulting in depressed firm performance

limitations:		knowledge gaps
			outcome measurement
			Conceptual abstraction hinders implementation
			Difficulties in establishing causation between variables
			
2: The Nonlinear Influence Of Harmonious Information Technology 


Frameworks: 	HITA - Harmonious IT affordance
			linear vs Non-linear & quadratic correlations
Affordances not inherent in people or artifacts, but
 organizational relationships
Distinctions between Affordances  & impediments 
Resonance - HITA alignment preserves organizational 
memory 
Organizational inertia - delays in implementation
Adaptation
Paradox - tensions between interdependent elements
Exploratory innovation
Exploitative Innovation


limitations:		Few studies use non-linear frameworks
			Most studies assume linear relationships


Variables:		IT Affordance
			IT appropriation


Guidance:		Promote = positive hita or impede = negative HITA
				Either situation can be leveraged to produce innovation
And innovative solutions
			Managing tensions to promote innovations
			Finding and leveraging existing paradoxes to stimulate
innovation - converting tensions into synergies

Examples:		New Collaborations tools that don’t integrate well with 
Existing Organizational memory tools, reducing HITA
Counter-intuitive - when innovation increases despite increasing
organizational misalignment

Perspectives:	IT Affordance misalignment may prevent standardization 
or an effort toward homogeneity and uniformity - or it may be perceived in this manner - but it is exactly this misalignment that results in novel solutions as disparate structures attempt to integrate with one another.
			It’s the challenges created by dissonance, and the need to resolve 
that dissonance - the conflicts created by that dissonance - that results in innovation, and innovate solutions
Definitions:	Positive HITA is when an organization is operating synergistically
			Negative HITA is when an organization is operating with creative
 Dissonance, or, displays paradoxical characteristics
The quadratic relationship between innovation and HITA is that 
innovation is increases as synergies increase, but also as dissonance increases
			Paradox refers to conflict within an organization, or
misalignment within an organization, or dissonance within an organization - even though it may be paradoxical
That innovation can increase as dissonance increases, paradox is not used to describe this phenomenon, the term counter-intuitive is used in this circumstance
			Coalignment - in contrast to dissonance - a kind of synergy
			Affordance Theory - what information technology allows human
users to do - affordance can increase as an operator becomes more adept at using a particular artifact of information technology - affordance is also - it affordance also depends on the goals of the user. - a crm doesn’t do much for a person interested in programming - an IDE doesn’t do much for a person looking to close a deal.
			Types of IT Affordance - Collaborative Affordance - 
organizational Memory Affordance - process management affordance
			Affordance - what is allowed - what is enabled
			Organizational inertia - describes the difficulties an 
organization may have in changing course or changing direction - in HITA terms - HITA = Zero
			Orthogonal - do not influence one another, either in a positive 
way or a negative way

2.1 Why Microtribes Are Wrecking Company Growth Plans

Dynamics:		Market fragmentation - has been increasing in an increasingly granular way - allowed by changes in how people 
				connect with one another
			Examples of how incumbents have adapted - have to combine some functions - keep other functions separate - these 
				can be used to describe when organizations 
					VF Corporation
					Match Group
					Omnicom
					Publicis
			Technologies change the way people interact - which changes the sizes of market segments - which changes how 
				companies manage product lineups - which changes how organizations are segmented
			I can demonstrate the non-linear/quadratic/parabolic/u-shaped relationship by using illustrations from 
				Fragmented organizations - VF Corp. - Match - Meta - Berkshire Hathaway
				Integrated Organizations - Apple - Google
				Mixed Integrated Organizations - Amazon
				


3: Strategic Relevance Of Organizational Virtues Enabled By IT

Terminology:	COPs - communities of practice - a conceptual framework for
Organizations.
Concepts:		Improvisation as innovation - improvisation involves developing
				novel solutions to address novel situations - and should be 
				considered a form of innovation - and should be fostered
				or promoted by an organization to address urgent and
				unpredictable, and unanticipated challenges
			Organizational Wisdom - required to improvise successfully - has
				a positive effect on the ability to improvise
			Mediating Variables - Mediating Factors - IT affordance doesn’t 
				have a direct connection to innovation - it’s mediated 
				through virtues and capabilities that can foster or hinder 
				Innovation.
			IT Capabilities are distinct from IT affordances - capabilities refer 
				to what can be done - affordances, specifically the aspect of 
				how technology is appropriated for a purpose - how 
				technologies might be used - a GPU could be used for 
				enhancing a computer game - or processing a large 
				language model - or processing a blockchain or 
				cryptocurrency - a GPU is capable of performing 
				calculations, but what functions a GPU affords to the user 
				depends on how the user appropriates or uses the GPU or
				what application the user uses it for.

Virtues:		Courage
			Justice - distributive and corrective
			Wisdom
			Temperance - particularly relevant during periods of radical 
				organizational change - needed to reduce anxiety, panic, 
				And Despair that coincides with radical organizational 
				change - Organizational Temperance serves to prevent or 
				reduce chaos

Frameworks:	The framework for organizational virtues is an extension of the 
				business ethics
			Organizational IT affordances - collaborative, process 
				management, and memory - Which in turn enable
				Organizational Virtues - These organizational virtues 
				determine the success of organizational improvisation - 
				improvisation is either a form of innovation - or a kind of 
				process that occurs before innovation - or is a kind of 
				preliminary step to innovation.

Catalysts:		improvisation - turbulent circumstances - spontaneous situations - unprecedented 
				Circumstances - truncated time horizons
Innovation - enhanced by formalizing the process of improvisation - or establishing or 
	practicing improvisation - having a process in place specifically for developing 
	novel solutions to unprecedented situations


Limitations:		ninety percent of innovations fail
Research showing reduced significance of information technology on organizational 
Outcomes
Organizational Wisdom - highest correlative variable to improvisational success - may 
potentially be highest among more established incumbent organizations - and less 
so among more recently established organizations.
In Business Ethics research, the virtue based ethical framework occupies a niche area, even 
within the information systems discipline - business ethics, the majority of business 
ethics scholarship - focuses on morality (“deontology”) or optimization as an 
ethical framework (“utilitarianism”)
Research based on subjects or observees or participants based in the united states


3.1 Norfolk Southern Corporation. (224). Form 10-K Annual Report.

Conclusions:	The East Palestine, Ohio derailment, cost 1.1 billion is an Example of a lack of a certain organizational virtue, they
				had all the technology in place to determine safety issues and set up maintenance to avert the issues, but for 
				one reason or another, they didn’t take the actions necessary to prevent the disaster

3.2 The Boeing Company. (2024). Form 10-K Annual Report.

Conclusions:	Similar to the issues at Norfolk Southern Corporation







4: Information Technology And Organizational Innovation: 
Challenges:	Inconsistencies in literature
			Limitations on areas of study - Organizational courage - risk tolerance - risk aversion - and fit
			Limitations of agency in a corporate context
Concepts:		Fit -HITA, and how HITA influences organizational courage
			Gestalt - coherence of internal structures
			Stratification of Fit: proposes 3 levels of fit Level 1 - Level 2 - Level 3
			Actualization - application and implementation
			Innovation - 2 types - exploratory - exploitative - exploitative meaning commercializable - actually - it seems both 
				exploratory and exploitative are for commercial applications - exploratory refers to innovating new 
				products - exploitative refers to innovating existing products - exploratory innovation is radical - 
				Exploitative is Incremental. Exploratory innovation is more disruptive.
			Actualizing affordances - Requires experimentation, changes, tinkering - these processes can pose a perceived risk 
				that a less courageous organization may be averse to, and therefore will never benefit from affordances 
				that are never implemented or actualized.
			Moderation - one variable has an effect on another variable, but that intensity of that impact is affected by a
				third variable
			Mediation -  one variable has an effect on another variable, but this effect can only occur through an 
				intermediate variable, or intermediary, that transmits the effect from the first variable, to the second 
				Variable
			Profile deviation - expectations vs reality
			Matching - two variables
			Covariance
			Gestalt
			
			
Frameworks:	Agility -  the ability to adapt to changing circumstances
Terminology:	Organizational Courage - refers to the ability to take risks - 
			Fit - Alignment and harmony - FIT & HITA refer to the convergence of IT infrastructure and organizational
				objectives in a way that serves as a catalyst for innovation - fosters innovation
			Circumspect - risk averse - risk avoidance - wary or risk
			Transitive Effect - 
			Salience = prevalence -
			Parsimonious - used in this context to mean focused
			Spurious - dubious or contrived

Conflicts:		Exploratory innovation by a firm may create products that conflict with existing product lines the following are 
			a list of companies that innovated products that conflicted with existing products:
				Vanguard - passively managed index funds
				State Street - Exchange traded funds
				Xerox - GUI, Personal Computers
				Polaroid - Digital Cameras, digital photography, digital imaging
				Alphabet - Large Language Models
				Booking holdings - Vacation Rentals
				IBM - Personal Computers , Servers
				Altria - vape products
				Microsoft - Mobile Operating Systems, Mobile Devices
				Corteva - Bioengineered crops
				Blockbuster - video streaming services
				Palm, blackberry, motorola - touchscreen smartphones
				DR Horton, Lennar Greystone - Modular construction techniques
				Atari - console gaming - computer gaming - multiplayer gaming
Reflections:	Affordances must be actualized, having the best tools, having the best technology means nothing if it isn’t put
				into use, it’s useless if it isn’t used - and it’s useless if it isn’t used to produce anything, like to innovate new 
				products, or iterate and improve upon existing products. These new innovations have the potential to create 
				uncertainty and perceived risks to an organization, and an organization must have courage to overcome				 the fears of risk and uncertainty to actualize technology to innovate.
			What the data shows is that the rewards are there for organizations  willing to take risks, for organizations that
				have The organizational courage to take prudent and well calculated risks and address the uncertainties 
				that come with those, rewards, those innovations, however, in order for these rewards to materialize for an
				Organization, information Technology affordances must be actualized in combination with a strong 
				culture of organizational courage.
			There is a point in the article that shows that there is a strong relationship between exploratory and exploitative
				 innovation, that when one measurement measures high, that the other will also measure high. One thing we 
				discussed in class was that, a long series of incremental, exploitative innovations, can result in - or can add 
				up to something similarly to an exploratory, disruptive innovation
			


3.2: Disruptive Innovations With It

1: Disruptive Innovation: Conceptual Foundations And Research Opportunities 
Disruption:		The term disruption - Currently Overused - core concepts misunderstood - disruption usually occurs at the
				lower-end of the market. Incumbents produce over-developed products. New entrants develop inexpensive
				products.
					Fintech -	
					Rideshare -
					Vacation Rentals -
					Browser software - 
			The technology isn’t usually innovative, but the business model is what is disruptive
			Low-end encroachment - movement from the low-end of the market, upstream, to the higher end of the market is 
				Usually something incumbents tend not to pay attention to - and this results in an increased chance of 
				being disrupted
			Industry-Wide or Strategic Disruptions
				Green Revolution
				Automation, AI, robotics, drones
				Sensor Technologies, wireless sensor networks
				Additive Manufacturing techniques, 3d printing, digital production
Methods:		Used language analysis to screen 1078 research papers published between 1978 - 2016
			Diffusion patterns
			Ex-ante
			Ex-post
			Post-hoc conclusions
Dynamics:		incumbents, established organizations lose ground when innovations occur due to a focus on existing, 
				sophisticated customers
			It has been suggested that organizations develop units that guard against disruptions rather than focus on 
				customer needs
			Leadership structures that cause organizations to be disrupted, increase the risk of being disrupted, and have 
				difficulties adapting and reacting to disruptions
			Legislative barriers prevented or interfered with the adoption of e-readers in japan - copyrights and intellectual 
				property protections specifically



2: Agility In Responding To Disruptive Digital Innovation
Focus:		small and medium sized enterprises - firms

Terminology:	SME - small to medium sized enterprises
			DDI - disruptive digital innovation
			Rigidity & Agility - refers to or connects to the concept of organizational inertia and agility
			

Cases:			Kodak - failure to respond to digital photography
			Nokia - failure to respond to smartphones
			AirBNB - how will it adapt as the market for vacation rentals becomes increasingly competitive
			Uber Technologies - 
			Elixir Technologies - coding changes - programming disruptions - software delivery distribution disruptions - 
				moved from business reporting - to business intelligence software - then to providing this service through 
				the cloud or through a cloud based application. - Developed a system for dispatching taxis to taxi stands, 
				but this was disrupted by ride-hailing services, so the technology was modified to serve mass transit stations
				Elixir was in a somewhat unique position - since they were in a business reporting, business intelligence, 
				business analytics software business, they often had extensive external network relationships since they 
				had to work with a variety of businesses - through these networks, the leadership teams were often more 
				creative, and more open to new business ideas. Converted the transit system software to a smart-transit 
				software system. from off the shelf packages - to cloud based software as a service - from business reporting 
				software to business analytics software. Had to adapt to mobile devices - pdas - and later to smart phones - 
				to allow delivery of the software to mobile devices

Concepts:		Agility is the key factor in surviving disruptions caused by digital innovations - requires the ability to detect and 
				respond to the changes caused by the innovations
			Some innovations may require the combination of several different technologies, or may require the maturity of 
				some technologies to occur, prerequisite developments to take place.
			SME - do not require large amounts of slack resources - refers to emergency fund style resources - larger 
				organizations require more slack resources in a way that someone with higher monthly expenses may require 
				a larger emergency fund. SMEs tend to have owner/managers who tend to have a mindset or approach that is 
				different from someone who is an employee/manager
			External network relationships - people outside a firm who can assist an SME in various ways, support an SME in 
				various ways, provide external competencies, external insights, alternative viewpoints, identify 
				Opportunities
			SME - does experience greater resource constraints compared to larger organizations
			Organizational Ambidexterity - managing exploratory, and exploitative innovation at the same time.
			Exploratory vs Exploitative innovation - in elixer’s case - mentioned that 3 out of 10 exploitative pilot projects 
				work out, compared to 1 out of 10 for exploratory pilot projects
			Responding to changes - develop capabilities - preventing rigidities - sensing requires leadership to have strong 
				external networks boundary openness
			Sensing Capabilities - being able to detect changes in innovation that can disrupt a business.
			SME - has benefits as well as challenges, they don’t require extensive resource slack, or fall back resources, but 
				they also don’t have - this also is an issue because they may not have enough resources to reconfigure the 
				Business or to adapt in the necessary ways after a disruption.



3: The Disruptive Information Technology Innovation Model
Frameworks:	“disruptive information technology innovation model (DITIM)
				adoption timing
				disruptive innovation cycle
			Variables that Differ between early and late adopters
				(1) adoption rate of radical IT innovations, 
				(2) strong order effects on downstream innovations related to the amount of innovation, 
				(3) perceived radicalness of innovations and 
				(4) strong effects on downstream innovations related to the radicalness of innovation.
			DITIM explains innovation patterns over time and articulates their sequence across three types of IT innovations: 
				(1) bases 
				(2) processes 
				(3) services
			Radical Innovations
				learning barriers - high during early period of innovation cycle, 
							    lower later on due to larger knowledge base

Timelines:		1995–1999, an early period of rapid, broad and deep industry-wide innovation
			2000 -  onward, a period in which industry-wide innovation slowed, 
			became dramatically standardized and posed lower learning requirements 
			for new entrants relative to the earlier stage.

Conclusions:	Goals of 
			(1) demonstrating the importance of considering temporal factors in the study of disruptive innovation 
			(2) illustrating that innovation types matter when theorizing about IT-innovation creation and adoption
			service innovation: primary engine of process innovation during the entire disruptive IT-innovation cycle
				Service innovation drives process innovation
			base technologies: ‘mature’ and become more standardized and powerful, they have more significant effects.
			process innovations: take more time to mature and evolve
			Process innovations: Process innovations may also have early substitutive effects when the causal links between 
				the base technologies and their effects are poorly understood and are later replaced with complementary
				Effects.
Reflections:	There is an early and late innovation cycle
			And there are early and late adopters of innovations”
			
			


4: The Disruptive Nature Of Information Technology Innovations
“Context:		This article deals with or addressed how the internet impacted or had an impact in the United States and Finland. 
				It was written in 2003, it mentions how the distribution of information shifted away from mainframe 
				distribution to internet distribution
			Disruptive Innovation - structural features distinct from interactive processes
			disruptive architectural innovations - deviate radically from existing architectures - May be appropriations of 
			latent technologies or adaptations of latent technologies to new user needs

			Innovation Diffusion Trajectory”
	“In their simplest form, IT innovations involve only a technological component—changes in hardware and software that are new to an industry or adopters—but they are often augmented with complementary organizational innovations including new forms of cognition, meaning, work process, business process, or organizational structure.”
Implications:	correct timing in the diffusion of disruptive innovations
				Learning curve is often steep 
Expertise in multiple areas is extremely rare - dedicated specialists are often required.

Type I system development processes - services
Type II - administrative functions
Type III - core business processes

3.3: Innovating With Artificial Intelligence
 
1: Artificial Intelligence In Organizations 

2: AI Innovation Typology

	Different Current Users	
		used by credit card companies to detect fraud
		ai assistants like siri and alexa
		medical uses of AI to detect Illnesses
		
		Professionals need to determine if Artificial intelligence will enhance their professions, or serve to undermine and devalue their professions.
		
		Structured Data
			this type of data is schematically standardized and organized 
				inventory figures  sales data  production levels  stock exchange data
		unstructured Data
				IoT // social media posts // blog posts // reviews // tweets
					IoT - the Internet of things - how objects are connected to the Internet
		
		processes
			pre-processes
				Natural Language Understanding
					converts spoken words into text
						statistical modeling and machine learning
				computer vision
			
			main processes
				problem solving
				reasoning
				Machine Learning
					lets AI systems enhance their performance  initially allowed
					artificial neural networks - consist of a sequence of layers where data is processed
						in one layer before being handed off to and processed by a deeper layer.
			
			outputs
				natural language generation
				image creation
				robotics
			Technological discontinuities
				when a new technology offers so much of an advantage that no increase in efficiencies, scale, or design to existing technologies can compete
					this relates back to
						exploratory and disruptive innovation
						and
						exploitative and incremental innovation
			
			autonomous vehicles
			
			competence enhancing
			
				do not change fundamentals, increase and serve as a tool to existing skills.
			

			
			
			
			competence destroying
			
				render existing skills obsolete
			
			Artificial generalized intelligence - strong AI - to simulate human thought
			
			Applied Artificial Intelligence - for tasks that are commercially viable

			Artificial super intelligence - 
			
			Things to consider
				
				implementation - there is a need for interoperability between programs - this can be difficult if API's are
				not compatible with one another.
				
				Data Quality - the quality of the data used to train AI models could be skewed, Inaccurate, biased, not representative - or poorly defined.
							 - low quality inputs result in low quality outputs by the AI models.
							 
				Privacy Measures - need to be in place to product individuals, large amounts of data are required to train AI models.

3: Artificial Intelligence (AI): Multidisciplinary Perspectives 

			Two Types or goals
				to perform specific tasks
				to think like a human
				
			deep neural networks to improve AI, may not improve these tools.
			realistic limits of AI, the - it's to serve as a tool, and move up the value chain - while using AI - 
			the concept of AI replacing humans is a dated concept.
			
			Application domains 
			The AI literature has identified several separate domains in which the technology can be applied: 
			
			Digital Imaging, 
			Education, 
				improve teacher effectiveness
					tutoring systems
					library users
					library processes
					intelligent narrative technologies 
					staffing requirements
				student engagement
					game-based learning environments

			Government, 
			Healthcare,
				medical informatics 
				loopthink - limitation of medical AI-loopthink
					type of implicit bias
					which does not  perform correct reappraisal of information or revision
					
					Weak loopthink refers to the intrinsic inability of computer 
						intelligence to redirect executive data flow because of its fixed internal 
						hard writing, un-editable sectors of its operating system, or unalterable 
						lines of its programme code. 

					Strong loopthink refers to AI suppression 
						due to internalisation of the ethical framework. 
					
				This is interesting - it seems to refer when the AI tool which should train itself in a way that improves itself
			Manufacturing, 
			Robotics and 
			Supply Chain. 
			
			Data Visualizations
			
			Data Challenges
				Disagreements about data standards creates challenges 
					a cardiac imaging - there were - there was a need to standardize data across institutions
				issues about transparency and reliability
				interpretations of imagery proved to be an obstacle
				the dimensionality obstacle
			
			Social Challenges
				Unrealistic expectations
				not
				fear of job losses
				fear of loss of participation in society
				
			Human cognitive flexibility
				the ability to interpret unstructured data
				
				
			SME - Society of Manufacturing Engineers
			Small and midsize enterprises (SMEs)  
				are businesses that have revenues, assets, or a number of employees below a certain 
				threshold. Each country has its own definition of what constitutes a small and midsize enterprise.
					- investopedia(2024)
					
			Critically, in subsets of these components, the data science may be handled independently,
			for example by 
			product or cloud suppliers, with different 
			viewpoints. So the following question arises: how can the inferences 
			delivered by different AI components be 
			
			integrated coherently when they may 
			be based on 
				different data, and subject to 
				different ecosystem conventions 
								(and the associated 
				quality differences) (Walton, 2018a; Walton, 2018b)? 
				
			This question can be retitled as the discrimination problem
			
		one of the earliest uses of AI was
			the chess game computer
				
		different levels of automation are appropriate for different types of tasks
			manual
			autonomous
			
				how much is given to a human, how much and what kind of input a human user gives to the machine
				
		situational awareness
			there is an expectation that there will be increasing issues with situational 
			awareness because humans don't have the same level of alertness or cognizance of events
			that they themselves do not create - whether that change is made by an AI, or another human,
			so as more things become automated, and more changes are made - or more actions are made by machines
			situational awareness is expected to decrease.		
			
		Logistics	
			
			Amazon
			
			Uber
			
		Value of AI should be highest when it reaches maturity - unlikely to be commoditized - meaning standardized product or indistinguishable from other AI products.
		
		consumer preferences
				can make or assist in providing customers with more
				more validated purchasing decisions. frequency of marketing messages
				automated bidding on marketing Artifacts
				advertising - machines generate content - consumers feel like they are being targeted
				people are afraid of AI that they don't really have a full understanding of
				
		I can't believe how long this article is. it's taking forever to get through.
		
		Marketing Implications
			
				Assists in designing better marketing material
				allows advertisers to better understand the data
				sales teams to meet their sales targets and goals
			
		AI resulted in reduced production rate at AirBus
		 
				"For instance, Ransbotham, Kiron, Gerbert, 
				and Reeves (2017) highlights that AI reduced the production rate in Air 
				Bus."
			
				"A production rate is a quantity of production accomplished over a specific period of time and 
				realistic production rates are the key in determining reasonable contract times for construction projects."
				
				"In manufacturing, production rate is typically measured as the quantity of goods manufactured per hour, day, week, month, or any other relevant time frame."
				
				"For example, let's say that workers at a manufacturing plant can produce 5,000 units per week using 50 hours of labor. As a result, 
				the production rate per hour would be 100 units (5,000 / 50 hours) minus any defective units. The 100 unit per hour 
				production rate could be used as a baseline number for comparative purposes. "
				

				"In a wide range of areas AI can be deployed (please see for a recent 
				review, Duan et al., 2019). For instance, Ransbotham, Kiron, Gerbert, 
				and Reeves (2017) highlights that AI reduced the production rate in Air" 
					
					"Ransbotham, S., Kiron, D., Gerbert, P., & Reeves, M. (2017). Reshaping business with 
					artificial intelligence: Closing the gap between ambition and action. MIT Sloan 
					Management Review, 59(1)."

					"Gerbert, P., Reeves, M., Ransbotham, S., Kiron, D., & Spira, M. (2018). Global 
					competition with AI in business: How China differs. MIT Sloan Management Review 
					(July)." 					 




	3.1 Leveraging large language models for predictive chemistry


				Terminology:	Machine Learning
								Large Language Model
								LLM Training
								In context learning - this refers to how the LLM learns about a subject during the course  of a chat session, rather than fine-tuning or 
								training the model directly.		
								Inverse design - this refers to creating molecular structures - or chemicals - polymers or 
								alloys - that react in a certain way, or have a specific set of properties - I think that it 
								is called inverse design because, rather than creating a chemical, and describing its 
								properties, - the desired properties are described, and then the molecule is designed
									Generative Models
									MLM - Machine Learning Model
									LLM - Large Language Model
									First-principles theory
				                          Isomers - This is chemistry related
				Polymers- This is chemistry related
				Monomers - This is chemistry related
						Gaussian process regression - GPR
						Generative pretrained transformer - gpt
				
				Applications:	Large Language Models and machine learning to chemistry, and physical sciences
							Computing, programming, AI, ML, LLM on Physical sciences, chemistry, and predictive
								Simulations
							Generating a specific type of dispersant - which I think is a kind of soap - generating a 
				dispersant with a specific set of characteristics
				
				Limitations:		The LLM was able to generate molecules using inverse design, or, it was able to 
				Hypothesize the existence of chemicals with a desired set of characteristics,
				But there were instances where the LLM generated invalid chemical structures
				Even if an LLM is able to generate a new chemical, that chemical still has to be synthesized
					And there are instances where it’s not really possible or practical to synthesize the
					Chemical generated by the LLM
				It can be difficult to train an LLM accurately, or train it well for accuracy because very 
				large dataset are required, and there are limitations on how many chemicals can be 
				tested and added to a given data set to train an LLM on
				
				Variations:		Using a general LLM AI tool (GPT 3) trained on chemistry documents Rather than a 
				chemistry specific AI tool, or existing chemistry simulation tools conventional machine learning models designed for chemistry
				Existing machine learning models represent chemicals or molecular structures 
					mathematically, or symbolically, or as a kind of code or program that reacts  	
				a certain way, rather than verbally. Existing machine learning models simulate 
				molecular structures in an abstract way, rather than verbally, the approach used in 
				this paper, by these researchers, describes chemicals verbally
				The GPT 3 LLM was compared with a gaussian process regression mlm
				
				Reflections:	this was a really interesting article - one of the things that I’m wondering is: if copyright 
				protection isn’t or cannot be granted to ai generated text or ai generated artwork, will patents also not be granted to ai generated chemicals? Or AI generated medicines or Pharmaceuticals? Or ai generated chemical compounds.
				AI is already used to create novel chemical structures, however, the prevailing AI tools 
				used for the purpose of generating novel chemical structures are Machine learning 
				models, rather than large language models, this research paper approaches 
				generating novel chemical structures using LLMs rather than MLMs
				
				
				Intersections:	This paper illustrates the concept of IT Affordances - LLMs have certain capabilities, and 
				how LLMs are appropriated, in this case, an LLM is appropriated for the purpose of creating novel chemical compounds - this article illustrates a novel appropriation of an existing tool.



	
	
4: Strategic Use Of AI











References


Mamonov, S., & Peterson, R. (2021). The role of IT in organizational innovation – A systematic literature review. Journal of Strategic Information Systems, 30, 101696. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsis.2021.101696


Chatterjee, S., Moody, G. D., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2021). The nonlinear influence of harmonious information technology affordance on organisational innovation. Information Systems Journal, 31(3), 294–322. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12311


Chatterjee, S., Moody, G., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2015). Strategic relevance of organizational virtues enabled by information technology in organizational innovation. Journal of Management Information Systems, 32(3), 158–196. https://doi.org/10.1080/07421222.2015.1099180


Chatterjee, S., Moody, G., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2020). Information technology and organizational innovation: Harmonious information technology affordance and courage-based actualization. Journal of Strategic Information Systems, 29, 101596. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsis.2020.101596


Hopp, C., Antons, D., Kaminski, J., & Salge, T. O. (2018). Disruptive Innovation: Conceptual Foundations, Empirical Evidence, and Research Opportunities in the Digital Age. Journal of Product Innovation Management, 35(3), 446–457. https://doi.org/10.1111/jpim.12448


Chan, C. M. L., Teoh, S. Y., Yeow, A., & Pan, G. (2018). Agility in responding to disruptive digital innovation: Case study of an SME. Information Systems Journal, 29(2), 436–455. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12215


Carlo, J. L., Gaskin, J., Lyytinen, K., & Rose, G. M. (2014). Early vs. late adoption of radical information technology innovations across software development organizations: an extension of the disruptive information technology innovation model. Information Systems Journal, 24(6), 537–569. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12039


Lyytinen, K., & Rose, G. M. (2003). The disruptive nature of information technology innovations: The case of internet computing in systems development organizations. MIS Quarterly, 27(4), 557-595. https://doi.org/10.2307/30036549


Benbya, H., Pachidi, S., & Jarvenpaa, S. (2021). Special Issue Editorial: Artificial Intelligence in Organizations: Implications for Information Systems Research. Journal of the Association for Information Systems, 22(2), 281-303. https://doi.org/10.17705/1jais.00662


Paschen, U., Pitt, C., & Kietzmann, J. (2020). Artificial intelligence: Building blocks and an innovation typology. Business Horizons, 63, 147-155. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bushor.2019.10.004


Dwivedi, Y. K., Hughes, L., Ismagilova, E., Aarts, G., Coombs, C., Crick, T., ... Williams, M. D. (2021). Artificial Intelligence (AI): Multidisciplinary perspectives on emerging challenges, opportunities, and agenda for research, practice and policy. International Journal of Information Management, 57, 101994. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2019.08.002


Borges, A. F. S., Laurindo, F. J. B., Spínola, M. M., Gonçalves, R. F., & Mattos, C. A. (2021). The strategic use of artificial intelligence in the digital era: Systematic literature review and future research directions. International Journal of Information Management, 57, 102225. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2020.102225


Anderson, C., & Robey, D. (2017). Affordance potency: Explaining the actualization of technology affordances. Information and Organization, 27(2), 100-115. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infoandorg.2017.03.002


Jablonka, K. M., Schwaller, P., Ortega-Guerrero, A., & Smit, B. (2024). Leveraging large language models for predictive chemistry. Nature Machine Intelligence. https://doi.org/10.1038/s42256-023-00788-1


Patnaik, D. (2024, February 11). Why Microtribes Are Wrecking Company Growth Plans. Forbes. https://www.forbes.com/sites/devpatnaik/2024/02/11/why-microtribes-are-wrecking-company-growth-plans/?sh=3307ddba509c


Norfolk Southern Corporation. (2024). Form 10-K Annual Report. U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. https://www.sec.gov/ixviewer/ix.html?doc=/Archives/edgar/ data/702165/000070216524000005/nsc-20231231.htm


The Boeing Company. (2024). Form 10-K Annual Report. U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. https://www.sec.gov/ixviewer/ix.html?doc=/Archives/edgar/data/12927/000001292724000010/ba-20231231.htm



Module 1 													Vicky
Module 2													Kelly
Module 3 													Kenneth
Module 4 													Group Paper
4.1. The Landscape of Emerging Technologies					Vicky
4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems			Vicky
4.1.2 Editorial Emergent Tech and Organizing				Vicky
4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:								Vicky
4.1.4 Quantum Computing and Information Systems				Vicky


4.2. The Changing Nature of Work							Kelly
4.2.1 Editorial Future of Work Organizations Society		Kelly
4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work				Kelly
4.2.3 Mental Health and Information Technology				Kelly
4.2.4 Waging war from remote cubicles						Kelly

4.3 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges 				Kenneth			Group Presentation
4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 							Kenneth			Vicky
4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 								Kenneth			Kelly
4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 					Kenneth			Kenneth
4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 						Kenneth			Kenneth
