2: Agility In Responding To Disruptive Digital Innovation
Focus:		small and medium sized enterprises - firms

Terminology:	SME - small to medium sized enterprises
			DDI - disruptive digital innovation
			Rigidity & Agility - refers to or connects to the concept of organizational inertia and agility
			

Cases:			Kodak - failure to respond to digital photography
			Nokia - failure to respond to smartphones
			AirBNB - how will it adapt as the market for vacation rentals becomes increasingly competitive
			Uber Technologies - 

...

https://ibkrcampus.com/trading-course/ibkr-desktop/?src=tiPlus031124us&eid=4824667&blst=NL-TI_cps_artclbtn

https://ibkrcampus.com/trading-course/ibkr-desktop/?src=tiPlus031124us&eid=4824667&blst=NL-TI_cps_artclbtn

Elixir Technologies


IT-Enabled Innovation 
Module Paper 3
MIS 764 



















Written By:
Vicky Saab 
Kelly Miller  
Kenneth Larot Yamat
Due: April 7, 2024


Integrative Conceptual Summary

The Relation Between IT And Organizational Innovation


In the article The Nonlinear Influence Of Harmonious Information Technology (Chatterjee et al., 2021) the authors put forward the idea that the relationship between HITA and Innovation is U-shaped, meaning that increased innovation is a result of increased HITA, but increased innovation can also be a result of decreased HITA. It’s intuitive enough that increased innovation results from increased HITA, everyone works well when everything works well, but the counterintuitive aspect of Chatterjee’s hypothesis is that increased innovation can also result when HITA is decreased, out of the chaos: innovation. In chaotic and creatively dissonant environments, a need arises to develop mechanisms that tie different operational units together. A general example of this would be something like the creation of the Euro to deal with the myriad currencies that existed in the EU trade bloc before the invention of the Euro, on the other hand, there isn’t enough dissonance between North American countries to drive or warrant such a currency innovation for the USMCA trade bloc.

In The Strategic Relevance Of Organizational Virtues Enabled By IT (Chatterjee et al., 2015) the authors put forward a framework for business ethics based on virtues that contrasts with conventional business ethics frameworks based on morality as well as business ethics frameworks based on optimization. Courage, justice, wisdom, and temperance are the virtues that Chatterjee bases the virtue based business ethics framework upon. Chatterjee extends upon this framework in two directions: the first is to determine how specific elements of HITA drive specific organizational virtues, the second is to determine how these organizational virtues drive innovation. Chatterjee goes on to posit that improvised solutions precede innovation, that innovations are a result of necessity and a need for a temporary and improvised solution to that unexpected necessity. Chatterjee found that high levels of Organization Wisdom guide the improvisation and innovation process with the greatest level of success and that the HITA elements of collaboration and memory enable that virtue with the greatest levels of economy. An interesting example of this would be the East Palestine, Ohio train derailment incident involving Norfolk Southern, as well as other high-profile safety issues involving the Boeing Max 737, various news reports mentioned that they had systems in place to detect and document safety issues and quality issues, but would either ignore or disregard those issues. Both of these examples will continue to play out, but either engineering innovations will reduce the costs of resolving safety issues, or legislative and judicial innovations will occur that increase the costs of unsafely operating these businesses.

In The Role Of IT In Organizational Innovation (Mamonov & Peterson 2021) the authors outline a number of different metrics used to measure information technology, and a number of different metrics for measuring innovation. Information technology can be measured with metrics like computing capacity, digital storage capacity, server capacity, data transfer rates, latency. Innovation is often measured by the number of patents filed, or the number of research papers published. This is important because information technology and innovation can seem amorphous and conceptual, but by creating metrics for measuring information technology and measuring innovation, these concepts become concrete and measuring impact and returns on IT investments can be determined. An article was recently published about the Wi-Fi connectivity issues at the Alphabet, Inc. campus where the Gemini AI project is being worked on (Bensinger 2024), it would be interesting to see how this plays out, and if something as simple as poor Wi-Fi connectivity can result in Google pulling out of the AI race. There have been a number of different instances where companies have pulled back from one venture or another, Apple recently canceled it’s autonomous electric vehicle project (Gurman 2024), similar examples include Google pulling out of social media, Amazon canceling it’s smartphone, Microsoft canceling it’s music player, IBM pulling out of the personal computer business, and it would be interesting if these project cancellations, all of which would have been wonderful innovations, all originally started with simple IT problems like Wi-Fi connectivity issues.

The article Information Technology and organizational innovation: Harmonious information technology affordance and courage-based actualization (Chatterjee et al., 2019) goes over how the capabilities offered by an information technology tool can be affected by attitudes toward using the technology: high levels of organizational courage on one end of the spectrum, and high levels of risk aversion on the other. This is an especially interesting discussion within the context of education. There are any number of information technology tools that are forbidden from use in one educational setting or another, but mastery of these information technology tools often sets a person apart just as much as any mastery of some underlying conceptual framework or subject matter would. Perhaps some educators have a fear that information technology use might diminish the learning process, but maybe they should have the courage to think of learning to use information technology as a learning process that enhances, extends upon, and amplifies an underlying learning process. An interesting concept introduced in this paper is the distinction between different types of innovation: exploratory and exploitative innovation. Exploratory innovation being radical and disruptive, and exploitative innovation being incrementally progressive. Exploratory innovations tend to be higher risk due to high rates of failure, failing three times more often than exploitative innovations, and can sometimes produce innovations that conflict with existing lines of business Polaroid and Kodak were forerunners is digital photography, but developing these products would have conflicted with film based photography products. A contemporary example might be Alphabet’s ventures into large language models and generative AI products, which may conflict with its search, and by extension, its ads business.

Disruptive Innovations With IT


An interesting point highlighted in Disruptive Innovation: Conceptual Foundations, Empirical Evidence, and Research Opportunities in the Digital Age (Hopp et al., 2018) is that disruptive innovations involving technology are not due to radical technological innovations, but rather, the disruptive effect is due largely to innovative business models. Hopp discusses how incumbents typically move upmarket to tailor their existing products to their existing customers’ increasingly sophisticated needs, resulting in over-developed specialty products that might not appeal to new customers. New entrants to a market usually start by creating products that appeal to customers at the lower-end of the market, and then move upmarket in a way that disrupts incumbents. Hopp describes this strategy as low-end encroachment. Even though Hopp doesn’t use this example, what he describes goes all the way back to the industrial revolution and the development of mass-market cotton and wool textiles, Henry Ford’s model T, the development of synthetic fibers to replace silk products. Another, more current example of this would be fintech products. In the research paper On the Fintech Revolution: Interpreting the Forces of Innovation, Disruption, and Transformation in Financial Services (Gomber 2018) most of the functional aspects of fintech products have more or less already existed, but were not widely available, came at an elevated cost, or involved settlement and posting timeframes that were not or are not practical for many segments of the market.


Innovating With Artificial Intelligence 


Critical Analysis of the Reading 

References 
Mamonov, S., & Peterson, R. (2021). The role of IT in organizational innovation – A
	systematic literature review. Journal of Strategic Information Systems, 30, 
	101696. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsis.2021.101696

Chatterjee, S., Moody, G. D., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2021). The 
	nonlinear influence of harmonious information technology affordance on 
	organisational innovation. Information Systems Journal, 31(3), 294–322. 
https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12311

Chatterjee, S., Moody, G., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2015). Strategic 
	relevance of organizational virtues enabled by information technology in 
	organizational innovation. Journal of Management Information Systems, 32(3), 
	158–196. https://doi.org/10.1080/07421222.2015.1099180

Chatterjee, S., Moody, G., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2020). 
	Information technology and organizational innovation: Harmonious information 
	technology affordance and courage-based actualization. Journal of Strategic 
	Information Systems, 29, 101596. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsis.2020.101596

Hopp, C., Antons, D., Kaminski, J., & Salge, T. O. (2018). Disruptive Innovation: 
	Conceptual Foundations, Empirical Evidence, and Research Opportunities in the 
	Digital Age. Journal of Product Innovation Management, 35(3), 446–457. 
	https://doi.org/10.1111/jpim.12448

Chan, C. M. L., Teoh, S. Y., Yeow, A., & Pan, G. (2018). Agility in responding to 
	disruptive digital innovation: Case study of an SME. Information Systems 
	Journal, 29(2), 436–455. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12215

Carlo, J. L., Gaskin, J., Lyytinen, K., & Rose, G. M. (2014). Early vs. late adoption of 
	radical information technology innovations across software development 
	organizations: an extension of the disruptive information technology innovation 
	model. Information Systems Journal, 24(6), 537–569. 
	https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12039

Lyytinen, K., & Rose, G. M. (2003). The disruptive nature of information technology 
	innovations: The case of internet computing in systems development 
	organizations. MIS Quarterly, 27(4), 557-595. https://doi.org/10.2307/30036549


Benbya, H., Pachidi, S., & Jarvenpaa, S. (2021). Special Issue Editorial: Artificial 
	Intelligence in Organizations: Implications for Information Systems Research. 
	Journal of the Association for Information Systems, 22(2), 281-303. 
	https://doi.org/10.17705/1jais.00662


Paschen, U., Pitt, C., & Kietzmann, J. (2020). Artificial intelligence: Building blocks and 
	an innovation typology. Business Horizons, 63, 147-155. 
	https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bushor.2019.10.004


Dwivedi, Y. K., Hughes, L., Ismagilova, E., Aarts, G., Coombs, C., Crick, T., ... Williams, 
	33M. D. (2021). Artificial Intelligence (AI): Multidisciplinary perspectives on 
	emerging challenges, opportunities, and agenda for research, practice and 
	policy. International Journal of Information Management, 57, 101994. 
	https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2019.08.002


Borges, A. F. S., Laurindo, F. J. B., Spínola, M. M., Gonçalves, R. F., & Mattos, C. A. 
	(2021). The strategic use of artificial intelligence in the digital era: Systematic 
	literature review and future research directions. International Journal of 
	Information Management, 57, 102225. 
	https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2020.102225

Anderson, C., & Robey, D. (2017). Affordance potency: Explaining the actualization of 
	technology affordances. Information and Organization, 27(2), 100-115. 
	https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infoandorg.2017.03.002

Jablonka, K. M., Schwaller, P., Ortega-Guerrero, A., & Smit, B. (2024). Leveraging large 
	language models for predictive chemistry. Nature Machine Intelligence. 
	https://doi.org/10.1038/s42256-023-00788-1

Patnaik, D. (2024, February 11). Why Microtribes Are Wrecking Company Growth 
	Plans. Forbes. https://www.forbes.com/sites/devpatnaik/2024/02/11/why-     
	microtribes-are-wrecking-company-growth-plans

Norfolk Southern Corporation. (2024). Form 10-K Annual Report. U.S. Securities
	and Exchange Commission.https://www.sec.gov/ixviewer/ix.html?doc=/
	Archives/edgar/ data/702165/000070216524000005/nsc-20231231.htm

The Boeing Company. (2024). Form 10-K Annual Report. U.S. Securities
	and Exchange Commission. https://www.sec.gov/ixviewer/ix.html?doc=/
Archives/edgar/data/12927/000001292724000010/ba-20231231.htm

Bensinger, G. (2024, March 8). Google's newest office has AI designers toiling in a 
	Wi-Fi desert. Reuters. https://www.reuters.com/technology/googles-newest
-office-has-ai-designers-toiling-wi-fi-desert-2024-03-08/

Gurman, M. (2024, February 27). Apple to wind down electric car effort after 
	decadelong odyssey. Bloomberg.https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2024-
	02-27/apple-to-wind-down-electric-car-effort-after-decadelong-odyssey

McKinsey & Company. (2023, January 19). What is generative AI? McKinsey & 
	Company. https://www.mckinsey.com/featured-insights/mckinsey-explainers
	/what-is-generative-ai


Eliot, L. (2024, March 12). Prompt Engineering Technique Known As The Step-Around Is 
Gaining Steam As Generative AI Becomes Less Forthright. Forbes Innovation AI. 
https://www.forbes.com/innovationai/2024/03/12/step-around-prompt-engineeri
ng-technique-gaining-steam-generative-ai/

Gomber, P., Kauffman, R. J., Parker, C., & Weber, B. W. (2018). On the Fintech 
Revolution: Interpreting the Forces of Innovation, Disruption, and Transformation in Financial Services. Journal of Management Information Systems, 35(1), 220-265. https://doi.org/10.1080/07421222.2018.1440766

Callaway, E. (2024, March 8). Could AI-designed proteins be weaponized? Scientists lay out safety guidelines. Nature. https://www.nature.com/articles/d41586-024-00699-0?utm_source=Live+Audience&utm_campaign=bddc4c8b69-briefing-dy-20240311&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_b27a691814-bddc4c8b69-51990316



...

Methods:		Used language analysis to screen 1078 research papers published between 1978 - 2016
			Diffusion patterns
			Ex-ante
			Ex-post
			Post-hoc conclusions
Dynamics:		incumbents, established organizations lose ground when innovations occur due to a focus on existing, 
				sophisticated customers
			It has been suggested that organizations develop units that guard against disruptions rather than focus on 
				customer needs
			Leadership structures that cause organizations to be disrupted, increase the risk of being disrupted, and have 
				difficulties adapting and reacting to disruptions
			Legislative barriers prevented or interfered with the adoption of e-readers in japan - copyrights and intellectual 
				property protections specifically



Gomber, P., Kauffman, R. J., Parker, C., & Weber, B. W. (2018). On the Fintech Revolution: Interpreting the Forces of Innovation, Disruption, and Transformation in Financial Services. Journal of Management Information Systems, 35(1), 220-265. https://doi.org/10.1080/07421222.2018.1440766



3.2: Disruptive Innovations With IT

1: Disruptive Innovation: Conceptual Foundations And Research Opportunities 
Disruption:		The term disruption - Currently Overused - core concepts misunderstood - disruption usually occurs at the
				lower-end of the market. Incumbents produce over-developed products. New entrants develop inexpensive
				products.
					Fintech -	
					Rideshare -
					Vacation Rentals -
					Browser software - 

			The technology isn’t usually innovative, but the business model is what is disruptive
			Low-end encroachment - movement from the low-end of the market, upstream, to the higher end of the market is 
				Usually something incumbents tend not to pay attention to - and this results in an increased chance of 
				being disrupted
			Industry-Wide or Strategic Disruptions
				Green Revolution
				Automation, AI, robotics, drones
				Sensor Technologies, wireless sensor networks
				Additive Manufacturing techniques, 3d printing, digital production


...

3.2: Disruptive Innovations With IT

1: Disruptive Innovation: Conceptual Foundations And Research Opportunities 
Disruption:		The term disruption - Currently Overused - core concepts misunderstood - disruption usually occurs at the
				lower-end of the market. Incumbents produce over-developed products. New entrants develop inexpensive
				products.
					Fintech -	
					Rideshare -
					Vacation Rentals -
					Browser software - 
			The technology isn’t usually innovative, but the business model is what is disruptive
			Low-end encroachment - movement from the low-end of the market, upstream, to the higher end of the market is 
				Usually something incumbents tend not to pay attention to - and this results in an increased chance of 
				being disrupted
			Industry-Wide or Strategic Disruptions
				Green Revolution
				Automation, AI, robotics, drones
				Sensor Technologies, wireless sensor networks
				Additive Manufacturing techniques, 3d printing, digital production
Methods:		Used language analysis to screen 1078 research papers published between 1978 - 2016
			Diffusion patterns
			Ex-ante
			Ex-post
			Post-hoc conclusions
Dynamics:		incumbents, established organizations lose ground when innovations occur due to a focus on existing, 
				sophisticated customers
			It has been suggested that organizations develop units that guard against disruptions rather than focus on 
				customer needs
			Leadership structures that cause organizations to be disrupted, increase the risk of being disrupted, and have 
				difficulties adapting and reacting to disruptions
			Legislative barriers prevented or interfered with the adoption of e-readers in japan - copyrights and intellectual 
				property protections specifically



2: Agility In Responding To Disruptive Digital Innovation
Focus:		small and medium sized enterprises - firms

Terminology:	SME - small to medium sized enterprises
			DDI - disruptive digital innovation
			Rigidity & Agility - refers to or connects to the concept of organizational inertia and agility
			

Cases:			Kodak - failure to respond to digital photography
			Nokia - failure to respond to smartphones
			AirBNB - how will it adapt as the market for vacation rentals becomes increasingly competitive
			Uber Technologies - 
			Elixir Technologies - coding changes - programming disruptions - software delivery distribution disruptions - 
				moved from business reporting - to business intelligence software - then to providing this service through 
				the cloud or through a cloud based application. - Developed a system for dispatching taxis to taxi stands, 
				but this was disrupted by ride-hailing services, so the technology was modified to serve mass transit stations
				Elixir was in a somewhat unique position - since they were in a business reporting, business intelligence, 
				business analytics software business, they often had extensive external network relationships since they 
				had to work with a variety of businesses - through these networks, the leadership teams were often more 
				creative, and more open to new business ideas. Converted the transit system software to a smart-transit 
				software system. from off the shelf packages - to cloud based software as a service - from business reporting 
				software to business analytics software. Had to adapt to mobile devices - pdas - and later to smart phones - 
				to allow delivery of the software to mobile devices

Concepts:		Agility is the key factor in surviving disruptions caused by digital innovations - requires the ability to detect and 
				respond to the changes caused by the innovations
			Some innovations may require the combination of several different technologies, or may require the maturity of 
				some technologies to occur, prerequisite developments to take place.
			SME - do not require large amounts of slack resources - refers to emergency fund style resources - larger 
				organizations require more slack resources in a way that someone with higher monthly expenses may require 
				a larger emergency fund. SMEs tend to have owner/managers who tend to have a mindset or approach that is 
				different from someone who is an employee/manager
			External network relationships - people outside a firm who can assist an SME in various ways, support an SME in 
				various ways, provide external competencies, external insights, alternative viewpoints, identify 
				Opportunities
			SME - does experience greater resource constraints compared to larger organizations
			Organizational Ambidexterity - managing exploratory, and exploitative innovation at the same time.
			Exploratory vs Exploitative innovation - in elixer’s case - mentioned that 3 out of 10 exploitative pilot projects 
				work out, compared to 1 out of 10 for exploratory pilot projects
			Responding to changes - develop capabilities - preventing rigidities - sensing requires leadership to have strong 
				external networks boundary openness
			Sensing Capabilities - being able to detect changes in innovation that can disrupt a business.
			SME - has benefits as well as challenges, they don’t require extensive resource slack, or fall back resources, but 
				they also don’t have - this also is an issue because they may not have enough resources to reconfigure the 
				Business or to adapt in the necessary ways after a disruption.



3: The Disruptive Information Technology Innovation Model
Frameworks:	“disruptive information technology innovation model (DITIM)
				adoption timing
				disruptive innovation cycle
			Variables that Differ between early and late adopters
				(1) adoption rate of radical IT innovations, 
				(2) strong order effects on downstream innovations related to the amount of innovation, 
				(3) perceived radicalness of innovations and 
				(4) strong effects on downstream innovations related to the radicalness of innovation.
			DITIM explains innovation patterns over time and articulates their sequence across three types of IT innovations: 
				(1) bases 
				(2) processes 
				(3) services
			Radical Innovations
				learning barriers - high during early period of innovation cycle, 
							    lower later on due to larger knowledge base

Timelines:		1995–1999, an early period of rapid, broad and deep industry-wide innovation
			2000 -  onward, a period in which industry-wide innovation slowed, 
			became dramatically standardized and posed lower learning requirements 
			for new entrants relative to the earlier stage.

Conclusions:	Goals of 
			(1) demonstrating the importance of considering temporal factors in the study of disruptive innovation 
			(2) illustrating that innovation types matter when theorizing about IT-innovation creation and adoption
			service innovation: primary engine of process innovation during the entire disruptive IT-innovation cycle
				Service innovation drives process innovation
			base technologies: ‘mature’ and become more standardized and powerful, they have more significant effects.
			process innovations: take more time to mature and evolve
			Process innovations: Process innovations may also have early substitutive effects when the causal links between 
				the base technologies and their effects are poorly understood and are later replaced with complementary
				Effects.
Reflections:	There is an early and late innovation cycle
			And there are early and late adopters of innovations”
			
			


4: The Disruptive Nature Of Information Technology Innovations
“Context:		This article deals with or addressed how the internet impacted or had an impact in the United States and Finland. 
				It was written in 2003, it mentions how the distribution of information shifted away from mainframe 
				distribution to internet distribution
			Disruptive Innovation - structural features distinct from interactive processes
			disruptive architectural innovations - deviate radically from existing architectures - May be appropriations of 
			latent technologies or adaptations of latent technologies to new user needs

			Innovation Diffusion Trajectory”
	“In their simplest form, IT innovations involve only a technological component—changes in hardware and software that are new to an industry or adopters—but they are often augmented with complementary organizational innovations including new forms of cognition, meaning, work process, business process, or organizational structure.”
Implications:	correct timing in the diffusion of disruptive innovations
				Learning curve is often steep 
Expertise in multiple areas is extremely rare - dedicated specialists are often required.

Type I system development processes - services
Type II - administrative functions
Type III - core business processes

3.3: Innovating With Artificial Intelligence
 
1: Artificial Intelligence In Organizations 
2: AI Innovation Typology
		Different Current Users	
		used by credit card companies to detect fraud
		ai assistants like siri and alexa
		medical uses of AI to detect Illnesses
		
		Professionals need to determine if Artificial intelligence will enhance their professions, or serve to undermine and devalue their professions.
		
		Structured Data
			this type of data is schematically standardized and organized
				inventory figures  sales data  production levels  stock exchange data
		unstructured Data
				IoT // social media posts // blog posts // reviews // tweets
					IoT - the Internet of things - how objects are connected to the Internet
		
		processes
			pre-processes
				Natural Language Understanding
					converts spoken words into text
						statistical modeling and machine learning
				computer vision
			
			main processes
				problem solving
				reasoning
				Machine Learning
					lets AI systems enhance their performance  initially allowed
					artificial neural networks - consist of a sequence of layers where data is processed
						in one layer before being handed off to and processed by a deeper layer.
			
			outputs
				natural language generation
				image creation
				robotics
			Technological discontinuities
				when a new technology offers so much of an advantage that no increase in efficiencies, scale, or design to existing technologies can compete
					this relates back to
						exploratory and disruptive innovation
						and
						exploitative and incremental innovation
			
			autonomous vehicles
			
			competence enhancing
			
				do not change fundamentals, increase and serve as a tool to existing skills.
			
			
			
			
			competence destroying
			
				render existing skills obsolete
			
			Artificial generalized intelligence - strong AI - to simulate human thought
			
			Applied Artificial Intelligence - for tasks that are commercially viable
			Artificial super intelligence -
			
			Things to consider
				
				implementation - there is a need for interoperability between programs - this can be difficult if API's are
				not compatible with one another.
				
				Data Quality - the quality of the data used to train AI models could be skewed, Inaccurate, biased, not representative - or poorly defined.
							 - low quality inputs result in low quality outputs by the AI models.
							
				Privacy Measures - need to be in place to product individuals, large amounts of data are required to train AI models.



3: Artificial Intelligence (AI): Multidisciplinary Perspectives 

						Two Types or goals
				to perform specific tasks
				to think like a human
				
			deep neural networks to improve AI, may not improve these tools.
			realistic limits of AI, the - it's to serve as a tool, and move up the value chain - while using AI -
			the concept of AI replacing humans is a dated concept.
			
			Application domains
			The AI literature has identified several separate domains in which the technology can be applied:
			
			Digital Imaging,
			Education,
				improve teacher effectiveness
					tutoring systems
					library users
					library processes
					intelligent narrative technologies
					staffing requirements
				student engagement
					game-based learning environments
			Government,
			Healthcare,
				medical informatics
				loopthink - limitation of medical AI-loopthink
					type of implicit bias
					which does not  perform correct reappraisal of information or revision
					
					Weak loopthink refers to the intrinsic inability of computer
						intelligence to redirect executive data flow because of its fixed internal
						hard writing, un-editable sectors of its operating system, or unalterable
						lines of its programme code.
					Strong loopthink refers to AI suppression
						due to internalisation of the ethical framework.
					
				This is interesting - it seems to refer when the AI tool which should train itself in a way that improves itself
			Manufacturing,
			Robotics and
			Supply Chain.
			
			Data Visualizations
			
			Data Challenges
				Disagreements about data standards creates challenges
					a cardiac imaging - there were - there was a need to standardize data across institutions
				issues about transparency and reliability
				interpretations of imagery proved to be an obstacle
				the dimensionality obstacle
			
			Social Challenges
				Unrealistic expectations
				not
				fear of job losses
				fear of loss of participation in society
				
			Human cognitive flexibility
				the ability to interpret unstructured data
				
				
			SME - Society of Manufacturing Engineers
			Small and midsize enterprises (SMEs) 
				are businesses that have revenues, assets, or a number of employees below a certain
				threshold. Each country has its own definition of what constitutes a small and midsize enterprise.
					- investopedia (2024)
					
			Critically, in subsets of these components, the data science may be handled independently,
			for example by
			product or cloud suppliers, with different
			viewpoints. So the following question arises: how can the inferences
			delivered by different AI components be
			
			integrated coherently when they may
			be based on
				different data, and subject to
				different ecosystem conventions
								(and the associated
				quality differences) (Walton, 2018a; Walton, 2018b)?
				
			This question can be retitled as the discrimination problem
			
		one of the earliest uses of AI was
			the chess game computer
				
		different levels of automation are appropriate for different types of tasks
			manual
			autonomous
			
				how much is given to a human, how much and what kind of input a human user gives to the machine
				
		situational awareness
			there is an expectation that there will be increasing issues with situational
			awareness because humans don't have the same level of alertness or cognizance of events
			that they themselves do not create - whether that change is made by an AI, or another human,
			so as more things become automated, and more changes are made - or more actions are made by machines
			situational awareness is expected to decrease.		
			
		Logistics	
			
			Amazon
			
			Uber
			
		Value of AI should be highest when it reaches maturity - unlikely to be commoditized - meaning standardized product or indistinguishable from other AI products.
		
		consumer preferences
				can make or assist in providing customers with more
				more validated purchasing decisions. frequency of marketing messages
				automated bidding on marketing Artifacts
				advertising - machines generate content - consumers feel like they are being targeted
				people are afraid of AI that they don't really have a full understanding of
				
		I can't believe how long this article is. it's taking forever to get through.
		
		Marketing Implications
			
				Assists in designing better marketing material
				allows advertisers to better understand the data
				sales teams to meet their sales targets and goals
			
		AI resulted in reduced production rate at AirBus
		
				"For instance, Ransbotham, Kiron, Gerbert,
				and Reeves (2017) highlights that AI reduced the production rate in Air
				Bus."
			
				"A production rate is a quantity of production accomplished over a specific period of time and
				realistic production rates are the key in determining reasonable contract times for construction projects."
				
				"In manufacturing, production rate is typically measured as the quantity of goods manufactured per hour, day, week, month, or any other relevant time frame."
				
				"For example, let's say that workers at a manufacturing plant can produce 5,000 units per week using 50 hours of labor. As a result,
				the production rate per hour would be 100 units (5,000 / 50 hours) minus any defective units. The 100 unit per hour
				production rate could be used as a baseline number for comparative purposes. "
				
				"In a wide range of areas AI can be deployed (please see for a recent
				review, Duan et al., 2019). For instance, Ransbotham, Kiron, Gerbert,
				and Reeves (2017) highlights that AI reduced the production rate in Air"
					
					"Ransbotham, S., Kiron, D., Gerbert, P., & Reeves, M. (2017). Reshaping business with
					artificial intelligence: Closing the gap between ambition and action. MIT Sloan
					Management Review, 59(1)."
					"Gerbert, P., Reeves, M., Ransbotham, S., Kiron, D., & Spira, M. (2018). Global
					competition with AI in business: How China differs. MIT Sloan Management Review
					(July)." 					
					
					
		Legal and Regulatory Implications
		
				how to determine liability and accountability issues.
				
				fake news and misleading information
				
				Human Rights implications
					the right not to be measured
					not to participate or be used to train the AI models in question
					
				Government Adoption of AI tools and applications
					efficiencies
					public hospitals using analytics tools to determine outbreaks
					algorithmic opacity - when it's not known, or disclosed how a system works.
					public opinion formation through tools like social media
						influences public policy directions
					
				Smart Cities and development of
					better city design
				
		Social Science Implications
		
				Digital haves and have-nots
				
				disrupts can create new social paradigms
					exposes people lower on the social rung to exploitation
					
				Digital inequity, and digital divide
				
				profiling and law enforcement issues. biases may be reinforced
				
				Keeping Humans at the center of the design
				
				Ethical implications of artificial Intelligence have
					not been fully contemplated and established
				
		I really can't believe how long this article is. I've been listening to this for I even don't  how many
		hours. Lord.
		
		Reinforcement Learning
				Referenced during GPT 2 development and Meta chat-bot experiments
				can have unpredictable results
				
		Deep Max Scores
			
				Framework
				
		Blockchain and Artificial Intelligence
		
		- Reading Completed on 06:47 AM on 03/06/2024
		
			I want to say that the reading took a full 7 hours.







3.1 Leveraging large language models for predictive chemistry


Terminology:	Machine Learning
			Large Language Model
			LLM Training
			In context learning - this refers to how the LLM learns about a subject during the course 
                                       		of a chat session, rather than fine-tuning or training the model directly.		
			Inverse design - this refers to creating molecular structures - or chemicals - polymers or 
alloys - that react in a certain way, or have a specific set of properties - I think that it 
is called inverse design because, rather than creating a chemical, and describing its 
properties, - the desired properties are described, and then the molecule is designed
			Generative Models
			MLM - Machine Learning Model
			LLM - Large Language Model
			First-principles theory
                          Isomers - This is chemistry related
Polymers- This is chemistry related
Monomers - This is chemistry related
		Gaussian process regression - GPR
		Generative pretrained transformer - gpt

Applications:	Large Language Models and machine learning to chemistry, and physical sciences
			Computing, programming, AI, ML, LLM on Physical sciences, chemistry, and predictive
				Simulations
			Generating a specific type of dispersant - which I think is a kind of soap - generating a 
dispersant with a specific set of characteristics

Limitations:		The LLM was able to generate molecules using inverse design, or, it was able to 
Hypothesize the existence of chemicals with a desired set of characteristics,
But there were instances where the LLM generated invalid chemical structures
Even if an LLM is able to generate a new chemical, that chemical still has to be synthesized
	And there are instances where it’s not really possible or practical to synthesize the
	Chemical generated by the LLM
It can be difficult to train an LLM accurately, or train it well for accuracy because very 
large dataset are required, and there are limitations on how many chemicals can be 
tested and added to a given data set to train an LLM on

Variations:		Using a general LLM AI tool (GPT 3) trained on chemistry documents Rather than a 
chemistry specific AI tool, or existing chemistry simulation tools conventional machine learning models designed for chemistry
Existing machine learning models represent chemicals or molecular structures 
	mathematically, or symbolically, or as a kind of code or program that reacts  	
a certain way, rather than verbally. Existing machine learning models simulate 
molecular structures in an abstract way, rather than verbally, the approach used in 
this paper, by these researchers, describes chemicals verbally
The GPT 3 LLM was compared with a gaussian process regression mlm

Reflections:	this was a really interesting article - one of the things that I’m wondering is: if copyright 
protection isn’t or cannot be granted to ai generated text or ai generated artwork, will patents also not be granted to ai generated chemicals? Or AI generated medicines or Pharmaceuticals? Or ai generated chemical compounds.
AI is already used to create novel chemical structures, however, the prevailing AI tools 
used for the purpose of generating novel chemical structures are Machine learning 
models, rather than large language models, this research paper approaches 
generating novel chemical structures using LLMs rather than MLMs


Intersections:	This paper illustrates the concept of IT Affordances - LLMs have certain capabilities, and 
how LLMs are appropriated, in this case, an LLM is appropriated for the purpose of creating novel chemical compounds - this article illustrates a novel appropriation of an existing tool.



	
	
4: Strategic Use Of AI
	Analytical tools for business strategy
		used a tool to review customer reviews on Yelp and similar websites
		and drafted a business strategy or business proposals








4.3 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges

4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems


4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:



4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work

 							

4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 		


						
4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 		


						
4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 		



				
4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 							





















Module 3 											Kenneth

Module 4 											Group Paper

4.1. The Landscape of Emerging Technologies				Vicky
4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems		Vicky
4.1.2 Editorial Emergent Tech and Organizing			Vicky
4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:						Vicky
4.1.4 Quantum Computing and Information Systems		Vicky


4.2. The Changing Nature of Work						Kelly
4.2.1 Editorial Future of Work Organizations Society		Kelly
4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work			Kelly
4.2.3 Mental Health and Information Technology		Kelly
4.2.4 Waging war from remote cubicles				Kelly

4.3 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges 				Kenneth			Group Presentation
4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 					Kenneth			Vicky
4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 					Kenneth			Kelly
4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 			Kenneth			Kenneth
4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 				Kenneth			Kenneth

Group Project


...

IT-Enabled Innovation 
Module Paper 3
MIS 764 



On the Fintech Revolution Interpreting the Forces
of Innovation, Disruption, and Transformation in
Financial Services















Written By:
Vicky Saab 
Kelly Miller  
Kenneth Larot Yamat
Due: April 7, 2024


Integrative Conceptual Summary
The Relation Between IT And Organizational Innovation

In the article The Nonlinear Influence Of Harmonious Information Technology (Chatterjee et al., 2021) the authors put forward the idea that the relationship between HITA and Innovation is U-shaped, meaning that increased innovation is a result of increased HITA, but increased innovation can also be a result of decreased HITA. It’s intuitive enough that increased innovation results from increased HITA, everyone works well when everything works well, but the counterintuitive aspect of Chatterjee’s hypothesis is that increased innovation can also result when HITA is decreased, out of the chaos: innovation. In chaotic and creatively dissonant environments, a need arises to develop mechanisms that tie different operational units together. A general example of this would be something like the creation of the Euro to deal with the myriad currencies that existed in the EU trade bloc before the invention of the Euro, on the other hand, there isn’t enough dissonance between North American countries to drive or warrant such a currency innovation for the USMCA trade bloc.

In The Strategic Relevance Of Organizational Virtues Enabled By IT (Chatterjee et al., 2015) the authors put forward a framework for business ethics based on virtues that contrasts with conventional business ethics frameworks based on morality as well as business ethics frameworks based on optimization. Courage, justice, wisdom, and temperance are the virtues that Chatterjee bases the virtue based business ethics framework upon. Chatterjee extends upon this framework in two directions: the first is to determine how specific elements of HITA drive specific organizational virtues, the second is to determine how these organizational virtues drive innovation. Chatterjee goes on to posit that improvised solutions precede innovation, that innovations are a result of necessity and a need for a temporary and improvised solution to that unexpected necessity. Chatterjee found that high levels of Organization Wisdom guide the improvisation and innovation process with the greatest level of success and that the HITA elements of collaboration and memory enable that virtue with the greatest levels of economy. An interesting example of this would be the East Palestine, Ohio train derailment incident involving Norfolk Southern, as well as other high-profile safety issues involving the Boeing Max 737, various news reports mentioned that they had systems in place to detect and document safety issues and quality issues, but would either ignore or disregard those issues. Both of these examples will continue to play out, but either engineering innovations will reduce the costs of resolving safety issues, or legislative and judicial innovations will occur that increase the costs of unsafely operating these businesses.

In The Role Of IT In Organizational Innovation (Mamonov & Peterson 2021) the authors outline a number of different metrics used to measure information technology, and a number of different metrics for measuring innovation. Information technology can be measured with metrics like computing capacity, digital storage capacity, server capacity, data transfer rates, latency. Innovation is often measured by the number of patents filed, or the number of research papers published. This is important because information technology and innovation can seem amorphous and conceptual, but by creating metrics for measuring information technology and measuring innovation, these concepts become concrete and measuring impact and returns on IT investments can be determined. An article was recently published about the Wi-Fi connectivity issues at the Alphabet, Inc. campus where the Gemini AI project is being worked on (Bensinger 2024), it would be interesting to see how this plays out, and if something as simple as poor Wi-Fi connectivity can result in Google pulling out of the AI race. There have been a number of different instances where companies have pulled back from one venture or another, Apple recently canceled it’s autonomous electric vehicle project (Gurman 2024), similar examples include Google pulling out of social media, Amazon canceling it’s smartphone, Microsoft canceling it’s music player, IBM pulling out of the personal computer business, and it would be interesting if these project cancellations, all of which would have been wonderful innovations, all originally started with simple IT problems like Wi-Fi connectivity issues.

The article Information Technology and organizational innovation: Harmonious information technology affordance and courage-based actualization (Chatterjee et al., 2019) goes over how the capabilities offered by an information technology tool can be affected by attitudes toward using the technology: high levels of organizational courage on one end of the spectrum, and high levels of risk aversion on the other. This is an especially interesting discussion within the context of education. There are any number of information technology tools that are forbidden from use in one educational setting or another, but mastery of these information technology tools often sets a person apart just as much as any mastery of some underlying conceptual framework or subject matter would. Perhaps some educators have a fear that information technology use might diminish the learning process, but maybe they should have the courage to think of learning to use information technology as a learning process that enhances, extends upon, and amplifies an underlying learning process. An interesting concept introduced in this paper is the distinction between different types of innovation: exploratory and exploitative innovation. Exploratory innovation being radical and disruptive, and exploitative innovation being incrementally progressive. Exploratory innovations tend to be higher risk due to high rates of failure, failing three times more often than exploitative innovations, and can sometimes produce innovations that conflict with existing lines of business Polaroid and Kodak were forerunners is digital photography, but developing these products would have conflicted with film based photography products. A contemporary example might be Alphabet’s ventures into large language models and generative AI products, which may conflict with its search, and by extension, its ads business.





...





4: Information Technology And Organizational Innovation: 
Challenges:	Inconsistencies in literature
			Limitations on areas of study - Organizational courage - risk tolerance - risk aversion - and fit
			Limitations of agency in a corporate context
Concepts:		Fit -HITA, and how HITA influences organizational courage
			Gestalt - coherence of internal structures
			Stratification of Fit: proposes 3 levels of fit Level 1 - Level 2 - Level 3
			Actualization - application and implementation
			Innovation - 2 types - exploratory - exploitative - exploitative meaning commercializable - actually - it seems both 
				exploratory and exploitative are for commercial applications - exploratory refers to innovating new 
				products - exploitative refers to innovating existing products - exploratory innovation is radical - 
				Exploitative is Incremental. Exploratory innovation is more disruptive.
			Actualizing affordances - Requires experimentation, changes, tinkering - these processes can pose a perceived risk 
				that a less courageous organization may be averse to, and therefore will never benefit from affordances 
				that are never implemented or actualized.
			Moderation - one variable has an effect on another variable, but that intensity of that impact is affected by a
				third variable
			Mediation -  one variable has an effect on another variable, but this effect can only occur through an 
				intermediate variable, or intermediary, that transmits the effect from the first variable, to the second 
				Variable
			Profile deviation - expectations vs reality
			Matching - two variables
			Covariance
			Gestalt
			
			
Frameworks:	Agility -  the ability to adapt to changing circumstances
Terminology:	Organizational Courage - refers to the ability to take risks - 

			Fit - Alignment and harmony - FIT & HITA refer to the convergence of IT infrastructure and organizational
				objectives in a way that serves as a catalyst for innovation - fosters innovation
			Circumspect - risk averse - risk avoidance - wary or risk
			Transitive Effect - 
			Salience = prevalence -
			Parsimonious - used in this context to mean focused
			Spurious - dubious or contrived

Conflicts:		Exploratory innovation by a firm may create products that conflict with existing product lines the following are 
			a list of companies that innovated products that conflicted with existing products:

				Vanguard - passively managed index funds
				State Street - Exchange traded funds
				Xerox - GUI, Personal Computers
				Polaroid - Digital Cameras, digital photography, digital imaging
				Alphabet - Large Language Models
				Booking holdings - Vacation Rentals
				IBM - Personal Computers , Servers
				Altria - vape products
				Microsoft - Mobile Operating Systems, Mobile Devices
				Corteva - Bioengineered crops
				Blockbuster - video streaming services
				Palm, blackberry, motorola - touchscreen smartphones
				DR Horton, Lennar Greystone - Modular construction techniques
				Atari - console gaming - computer gaming - multiplayer gaming
				
Reflections:	Affordances must be actualized, having the best tools, having the best technology means nothing if it isn’t put
				into use, it’s useless if it isn’t used - and it’s useless if it isn’t used to produce anything, like to innovate new 
				products, or iterate and improve upon existing products. These new innovations have the potential to create 
				uncertainty and perceived risks to an organization, and an organization must have courage to overcome				 the fears of risk and uncertainty to actualize technology to innovate.

			What the data shows is that the rewards are there for organizations  willing to take risks, for organizations that
				have The organizational courage to take prudent and well calculated risks and address the uncertainties 
				that come with those, rewards, those innovations, however, in order for these rewards to materialize for an
				Organization, information Technology affordances must be actualized in combination with a strong 
				culture of organizational courage.

			There is a point in the article that shows that there is a strong relationship between exploratory and exploitative
				 innovation, that when one measurement measures high, that the other will also measure high. One thing we 
				discussed in class was that, a long series of incremental, exploitative innovations, can result in - or can add 
				up to something similarly to an exploratory, disruptive innovation
			




...

IT-Enabled Innovation 
Module Paper 3
MIS 764 



















Written By:
Vicky Saab 
Kelly Miller  
Kenneth Larot Yamat
Due: April 7, 2024


Integrative Conceptual Summary
The Relation Between IT And Organizational Innovation

In the article The Nonlinear Influence Of Harmonious Information Technology (Chatterjee et al., 2021) the authors put forward the idea that the relationship between HITA and Innovation is U-shaped, meaning that increased innovation is a result of increased HITA, but increased innovation can also be a result of decreased HITA. It’s intuitive enough that increased innovation results from increased HITA, everyone works well when everything works well, but the counterintuitive aspect of Chatterjee’s hypothesis is that increased innovation can also result when HITA is decreased, out of the chaos: innovation. In chaotic and creatively dissonant environments, a need arises to develop mechanisms that tie different operational units together. A general example of this would be something like the creation of the Euro to deal with the myriad currencies that existed in the EU trade bloc before the invention of the Euro, on the other hand, there isn’t enough dissonance between North American countries to drive or warrant such a currency innovation for the USMCA trade bloc.

In The Strategic Relevance Of Organizational Virtues Enabled By IT (Chatterjee et al., 2015) the authors put forward a framework for business ethics based on virtues that contrasts with conventional business ethics frameworks based on morality as well as business ethics frameworks based on optimization. Courage, justice, wisdom, and temperance are the virtues that Chatterjee bases the virtue based business ethics framework upon. Chatterjee extends upon this framework in two directions: the first is to determine how specific elements of HITA drive specific organizational virtues, the second is to determine how these organizational virtues drive innovation. Chatterjee goes on to posit that improvised solutions precede innovation, that innovations are a result of necessity and a need for a temporary and improvised solution to that unexpected necessity. Chatterjee found that high levels of Organization Wisdom guide the improvisation and innovation process with the greatest level of success and that the HITA elements of collaboration and memory enable that virtue with the greatest levels of economy. An interesting example of this would be the East Palestine, Ohio train derailment incident involving Norfolk Southern, as well as other high-profile safety issues involving the Boeing Max 737, various news reports mentioned that they had systems in place to detect and document safety issues and quality issues, but would either ignore or disregard those issues. Both of these examples will continue to play out, but either engineering innovations will reduce the costs of resolving safety issues, or legislative and judicial innovations will occur that increase the costs of unsafely operating these businesses.

In The Role Of IT In Organizational Innovation (Mamonov & Peterson 2021) the authors outline a number of different metrics used to measure information technology, and a number of different metrics for measuring innovation. Information technology can be measured with metrics like computing capacity, digital storage capacity, server capacity, data transfer rates, latency. Innovation is often measured by the number of patents filed, or the number of research papers published. This is important because information technology and innovation can seem amorphous and conceptual, but by creating metrics for measuring information technology and measuring innovation, these concepts become concrete and measuring impact and returns on IT investments can be determined. An article was recently published about the Wi-Fi connectivity issues at the Alphabet, Inc. campus where the Gemini AI project is being worked on (Bensinger 2024), it would be interesting to see how this plays out, and if something as simple as poor Wi-Fi connectivity can result in Google pulling out of the AI race. There have been a number of different instances where companies have pulled back from one venture or another, Apple recently canceled it’s autonomous electric vehicle project (Gurman 2024), similar examples include Google pulling out of social media, Amazon canceling it’s smartphone, Microsoft canceling it’s music player, IBM pulling out of the personal computer business, and it would be interesting if these project cancellations, all of which would have been wonderful innovations, all originally started with simple IT problems like Wi-Fi connectivity issues.

The article Information Technology and organizational innovation: Harmonious information technology affordance and courage-based actualization (Chatterjee et al., 2019) goes over how the capabilities offered by an information technology tool can be affected by attitudes toward using the technology: high levels of organizational courage on one end of the spectrum, and high levels of risk aversion on the other. This is an especially interesting discussion within the context of education. There are any number of information technology tools that are forbidden from use in one educational setting or another, but mastery of these information technology tools often sets a person apart just as much as any mastery of some underlying conceptual framework or subject matter would. Perhaps some educators have a fear that information technology use might diminish the learning process, but maybe they should have the courage to think of learning to use information technology as a learning process that enhances, extends upon, and amplifies an underlying learning process.



Disruptive Innovations With IT


Innovating With Artificial Intelligence 


Critical Analysis of the Reading 

References 
Mamonov, S., & Peterson, R. (2021). The role of IT in organizational innovation – A
	systematic literature review. Journal of Strategic Information Systems, 30, 
	101696. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsis.2021.101696

Chatterjee, S., Moody, G. D., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2021). The 
	nonlinear influence of harmonious information technology affordance on 
	organisational innovation. Information Systems Journal, 31(3), 294–322. 
https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12311

Chatterjee, S., Moody, G., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2015). Strategic 
	relevance of organizational virtues enabled by information technology in 
	organizational innovation. Journal of Management Information Systems, 32(3), 
	158–196. https://doi.org/10.1080/07421222.2015.1099180

Chatterjee, S., Moody, G., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2020). 
	Information technology and organizational innovation: Harmonious information 
	technology affordance and courage-based actualization. Journal of Strategic 
	Information Systems, 29, 101596. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsis.2020.101596

Hopp, C., Antons, D., Kaminski, J., & Salge, T. O. (2018). Disruptive Innovation: 
	Conceptual Foundations, Empirical Evidence, and Research Opportunities in the 
	Digital Age. Journal of Product Innovation Management, 35(3), 446–457. 
	https://doi.org/10.1111/jpim.12448

Chan, C. M. L., Teoh, S. Y., Yeow, A., & Pan, G. (2018). Agility in responding to 
	disruptive digital innovation: Case study of an SME. Information Systems 
	Journal, 29(2), 436–455. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12215

Carlo, J. L., Gaskin, J., Lyytinen, K., & Rose, G. M. (2014). Early vs. late adoption of 
	radical information technology innovations across software development 
	organizations: an extension of the disruptive information technology innovation 
	model. Information Systems Journal, 24(6), 537–569. 
	https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12039

Lyytinen, K., & Rose, G. M. (2003). The disruptive nature of information technology 
	innovations: The case of internet computing in systems development 
	organizations. MIS Quarterly, 27(4), 557-595. https://doi.org/10.2307/30036549


Benbya, H., Pachidi, S., & Jarvenpaa, S. (2021). Special Issue Editorial: Artificial 
	Intelligence in Organizations: Implications for Information Systems Research. 
	Journal of the Association for Information Systems, 22(2), 281-303. 
	https://doi.org/10.17705/1jais.00662


Paschen, U., Pitt, C., & Kietzmann, J. (2020). Artificial intelligence: Building blocks and 
	an innovation typology. Business Horizons, 63, 147-155. 
	https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bushor.2019.10.004


Dwivedi, Y. K., Hughes, L., Ismagilova, E., Aarts, G., Coombs, C., Crick, T., ... Williams, 
	33M. D. (2021). Artificial Intelligence (AI): Multidisciplinary perspectives on 
	emerging challenges, opportunities, and agenda for research, practice and 
	policy. International Journal of Information Management, 57, 101994. 
	https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2019.08.002


Borges, A. F. S., Laurindo, F. J. B., Spínola, M. M., Gonçalves, R. F., & Mattos, C. A. 
	(2021). The strategic use of artificial intelligence in the digital era: Systematic 
	literature review and future research directions. International Journal of 
	Information Management, 57, 102225. 
	https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2020.102225

Anderson, C., & Robey, D. (2017). Affordance potency: Explaining the actualization of 
	technology affordances. Information and Organization, 27(2), 100-115. 
	https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infoandorg.2017.03.002

Jablonka, K. M., Schwaller, P., Ortega-Guerrero, A., & Smit, B. (2024). Leveraging large 
	language models for predictive chemistry. Nature Machine Intelligence. 
	https://doi.org/10.1038/s42256-023-00788-1

Patnaik, D. (2024, February 11). Why Microtribes Are Wrecking Company Growth 
	Plans. Forbes. https://www.forbes.com/sites/devpatnaik/2024/02/11/why-     
	microtribes-are-wrecking-company-growth-plans

Norfolk Southern Corporation. (2024). Form 10-K Annual Report. U.S. Securities
	and Exchange Commission.https://www.sec.gov/ixviewer/ix.html?doc=/
	Archives/edgar/ data/702165/000070216524000005/nsc-20231231.htm

The Boeing Company. (2024). Form 10-K Annual Report. U.S. Securities
	and Exchange Commission. https://www.sec.gov/ixviewer/ix.html?doc=/
Archives/edgar/data/12927/000001292724000010/ba-20231231.htm

Bensinger, G. (2024, March 8). Google's newest office has AI designers toiling in a 
	Wi-Fi desert. Reuters. https://www.reuters.com/technology/googles-newest
-office-has-ai-designers-toiling-wi-fi-desert-2024-03-08/

Gurman, M. (2024, February 27). Apple to wind down electric car effort after 
	decadelong odyssey. Bloomberg.https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2024-
	02-27/apple-to-wind-down-electric-car-effort-after-decadelong-odyssey

McKinsey & Company. (2023, January 19). What is generative AI? McKinsey & 
	Company. https://www.mckinsey.com/featured-insights/mckinsey-explainers
	/what-is-generative-ai


Eliot, L. (2024, March 12). Prompt Engineering Technique Known As The Step-Around Is 
Gaining Steam As Generative AI Becomes Less Forthright. Forbes Innovation AI. 
https://www.forbes.com/innovationai/2024/03/12/step-around-prompt-engineeri
ng-technique-gaining-steam-generative-ai/


...

https://www.dividend.com/active-etfs-channel/vanguard-etf-patent-expiration-game-changer-for-investment-industry/

https://patents.google.com/patent/US20040049448A1/en

https://patents.google.com/patent/US20040049448A1/en

https://patents.google.com/patent/US8719138B2/en

https://patents.google.com/patent/US8719138B2/en

...

The Development Workspace for a series of assignments for MIS 764

...

Done - Module 1 											Vicky
Done - Module 2												Kelly

...

References

Mamonov, S., & Peterson, R. (2021). The role of IT in organizational innovation – A systematic literature review. Journal of Strategic Information Systems, 30, 101696. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsis.2021.101696

Chatterjee, S., Moody, G. D., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2021). The nonlinear influence of harmonious information technology affordance on organisational innovation. Information Systems Journal, 31(3), 294–322. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12311

Chatterjee, S., Moody, G., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2015). Strategic relevance of organizational virtues enabled by information technology in organizational innovation. Journal of Management Information Systems, 32(3), 158–196. https://doi.org/10.1080/07421222.2015.1099180

Chatterjee, S., Moody, G., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2020). Information technology and organizational innovation: Harmonious information technology affordance and courage-based actualization. Journal of Strategic Information Systems, 29, 101596. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsis.2020.101596

Hopp, C., Antons, D., Kaminski, J., & Salge, T. O. (2018). Disruptive Innovation: Conceptual Foundations, Empirical Evidence, and Research Opportunities in the Digital Age. Journal of Product Innovation Management, 35(3), 446–457. https://doi.org/10.1111/jpim.12448

Chan, C. M. L., Teoh, S. Y., Yeow, A., & Pan, G. (2018). Agility in responding to disruptive digital innovation: Case study of an SME. Information Systems Journal, 29(2), 436–455. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12215

Carlo, J. L., Gaskin, J., Lyytinen, K., & Rose, G. M. (2014). Early vs. late adoption of radical information technology innovations across software development organizations: an extension of the disruptive information technology innovation model. Information Systems Journal, 24(6), 537–569. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12039

Lyytinen, K., & Rose, G. M. (2003). The disruptive nature of information technology innovations: The case of internet computing in systems development organizations. MIS Quarterly, 27(4), 557-595. https://doi.org/10.2307/30036549


Benbya, H., Pachidi, S., & Jarvenpaa, S. (2021). Special Issue Editorial: Artificial Intelligence in Organizations: Implications for Information Systems Research. Journal of the Association for Information Systems, 22(2), 281-303. https://doi.org/10.17705/1jais.00662


Paschen, U., Pitt, C., & Kietzmann, J. (2020). Artificial intelligence: Building blocks and an innovation typology. Business Horizons, 63, 147-155. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bushor.2019.10.004


Dwivedi, Y. K., Hughes, L., Ismagilova, E., Aarts, G., Coombs, C., Crick, T., ... Williams, M. D. (2021). Artificial Intelligence (AI): Multidisciplinary perspectives on emerging challenges, opportunities, and agenda for research, practice and policy. International Journal of Information Management, 57, 101994. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2019.08.002


Borges, A. F. S., Laurindo, F. J. B., Spínola, M. M., Gonçalves, R. F., & Mattos, C. A. (2021). The strategic use of artificial intelligence in the digital era: Systematic literature review and future research directions. International Journal of Information Management, 57, 102225. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2020.102225

Anderson, C., & Robey, D. (2017). Affordance potency: Explaining the actualization of technology affordances. Information and Organization, 27(2), 100-115. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infoandorg.2017.03.002
Jablonka, K. M., Schwaller, P., Ortega-Guerrero, A., & Smit, B. (2024). Leveraging large language models for predictive chemistry. Nature Machine Intelligence. https://doi.org/10.1038/s42256-023-00788-1



Patnaik, D. (2024, February 11). Why Microtribes Are Wrecking Company Growth Plans. Forbes. https://www.forbes.com/sites/devpatnaik/2024/02/11/why-microtribes-are-wrecking-company-growth-plans/?sh=3307ddba509c



Norfolk Southern Corporation. (2024). Form 10-K Annual Report. U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. https://www.sec.gov/ixviewer/ix.html?doc=/Archives/edgar/ data/702165/000070216524000005/nsc-20231231.htm



The Boeing Company. (2024). Form 10-K Annual Report. U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. https://www.sec.gov/ixviewer/ix.html?doc=/Archives/edgar/data/12927/000001292724000010/ba-20231231.htm
McKinsey & Company. (2023, January 19). What is generative AI? McKinsey & Company. https://www.mckinsey.com/featured-insights/mckinsey-explainers/what-is-generative-ai







– this was basically useless, you can’t print a pdf that has read aloud enabled, a document has to be downloaded, not printed – as a pdf in order for it to be read aloud enabled























Annotations

Testing the presentation - tested inserting videos - creating charts - creating diagrams - 

Created slides 21 - 24 - subsequently deleted.


Updated Module paper 3, just the references page

I came across an interesting scholarly article that I want to read, and cite in this paper
So i am skipping to 3.3 of the module 3 paper



Article Read Aloud Set up Area





...

McKinsey & Company. (2023, January 19). What is generative AI? McKinsey & Company. https://www.mckinsey.com/featured-insights/mckinsey-explainers/what-is-generative-ai

...

Module 3: IT-Enabled Innovation 

3.1: The Relation Between It And Organizational Innovation 

1: The Role Of It In Organizational Innovation
 
correlations: 	number of servers to firm performance
computing capacity to firm performance
storage capacity to firm performance
number of patents to it investments
it expertise and firm performance
patents filed to commercialized products
moderate competition stimulates innovation
intense competition depresses innovation

variables:		productivity 
sales performance 
profitability 
value added 
stock returns 
return on investment
Economies of scale
Architectural flexibility
Diminishing returns
Limited impact

influences:		firm alignment and orientation
			posture
			governance
			internal conflict
			internal and external context
group conflict hinders adoption
actively fostering innovation
informal mechanisms
industry dynamics
gender diversity
Knowledge integration
Key actors

frameworks:	resource based view
			capabilities based perspective
industry convergence
Organizational innovation system

cases:			polaroid - misalignment
			xerox - failure to capitalize
			yahoo - failure to capitalize
			hospitality incumbents - dismissive of disruptors
			pharmaceutical companies - r&d failures lead to patent
acquisition resulting in depressed firm performance

limitations:		knowledge gaps
			outcome measurement
			Conceptual abstraction hinders implementation
			Difficulties in establishing causation between variables
			
2: The Nonlinear Influence Of Harmonious Information Technology 


Frameworks: 	HITA - Harmonious IT affordance
			linear vs Non-linear & quadratic correlations
Affordances not inherent in people or artifacts, but
 organizational relationships
Distinctions between Affordances  & impediments 
Resonance - HITA alignment preserves organizational 
memory 
Organizational inertia - delays in implementation
Adaptation
Paradox - tensions between interdependent elements
Exploratory innovation
Exploitative Innovation


limitations:		Few studies use non-linear frameworks
			Most studies assume linear relationships


Variables:		IT Affordance
			IT appropriation


Guidance:		Promote = positive hita or impede = negative HITA
				Either situation can be leveraged to produce innovation
And innovative solutions
			Managing tensions to promote innovations
			Finding and leveraging existing paradoxes to stimulate
innovation - converting tensions into synergies

Examples:		New Collaborations tools that don’t integrate well with 
Existing Organizational memory tools, reducing HITA
Counter-intuitive - when innovation increases despite increasing
organizational misalignment

Perspectives:	IT Affordance misalignment may prevent standardization 
or an effort toward homogeneity and uniformity - or it may be perceived in this manner - but it is exactly this misalignment that results in novel solutions as disparate structures attempt to integrate with one another.
			It’s the challenges created by dissonance, and the need to resolve 
that dissonance - the conflicts created by that dissonance - that results in innovation, and innovate solutions
Definitions:	Positive HITA is when an organization is operating synergistically
			Negative HITA is when an organization is operating with creative
 Dissonance, or, displays paradoxical characteristics
The quadratic relationship between innovation and HITA is that 
innovation is increases as synergies increase, but also as dissonance increases
			Paradox refers to conflict within an organization, or
misalignment within an organization, or dissonance within an organization - even though it may be paradoxical
That innovation can increase as dissonance increases, paradox is not used to describe this phenomenon, the term counter-intuitive is used in this circumstance
			Coalignment - in contrast to dissonance - a kind of synergy
			Affordance Theory - what information technology allows human
users to do - affordance can increase as an operator becomes more adept at using a particular artifact of information technology - affordance is also - it affordance also depends on the goals of the user. - a crm doesn’t do much for a person interested in programming - an IDE doesn’t do much for a person looking to close a deal.
			Types of IT Affordance - Collaborative Affordance - 
organizational Memory Affordance - process management affordance
			Affordance - what is allowed - what is enabled
			Organizational inertia - describes the difficulties an 
organization may have in changing course or changing direction - in HITA terms - HITA = Zero
			Orthogonal - do not influence one another, either in a positive 
way or a negative way

2.1 Why Microtribes Are Wrecking Company Growth Plans

Dynamics:		Market fragmentation - has been increasing in an increasingly granular way - allowed by changes in how people 
				connect with one another
			Examples of how incumbents have adapted - have to combine some functions - keep other functions separate - these 
				can be used to describe when organizations 
					VF Corporation
					Match Group
					Omnicom
					Publicis
			Technologies change the way people interact - which changes the sizes of market segments - which changes how 
				companies manage product lineups - which changes how organizations are segmented
			I can demonstrate the non-linear/quadratic/parabolic/u-shaped relationship by using illustrations from 
				Fragmented organizations - VF Corp. - Match - Meta - Berkshire Hathaway
				Integrated Organizations - Apple - Google
				Mixed Integrated Organizations - Amazon
				


3: Strategic Relevance Of Organizational Virtues Enabled By IT

Terminology:	COPs - communities of practice - a conceptual framework for
Organizations.
Concepts:		Improvisation as innovation - improvisation involves developing
				novel solutions to address novel situations - and should be 
				considered a form of innovation - and should be fostered
				or promoted by an organization to address urgent and
				unpredictable, and unanticipated challenges
			Organizational Wisdom - required to improvise successfully - has
				a positive effect on the ability to improvise
			Mediating Variables - Mediating Factors - IT affordance doesn’t 
				have a direct connection to innovation - it’s mediated 
				through virtues and capabilities that can foster or hinder 
				Innovation.
			IT Capabilities are distinct from IT affordances - capabilities refer 
				to what can be done - affordances, specifically the aspect of 
				how technology is appropriated for a purpose - how 
				technologies might be used - a GPU could be used for 
				enhancing a computer game - or processing a large 
				language model - or processing a blockchain or 
				cryptocurrency - a GPU is capable of performing 
				calculations, but what functions a GPU affords to the user 
				depends on how the user appropriates or uses the GPU or
				what application the user uses it for.

Virtues:		Courage
			Justice - distributive and corrective
			Wisdom
			Temperance - particularly relevant during periods of radical 
				organizational change - needed to reduce anxiety, panic, 
				And Despair that coincides with radical organizational 
				change - Organizational Temperance serves to prevent or 
				reduce chaos

Frameworks:	The framework for organizational virtues is an extension of the 
				business ethics
			Organizational IT affordances - collaborative, process 
				management, and memory - Which in turn enable
				Organizational Virtues - These organizational virtues 
				determine the success of organizational improvisation - 
				improvisation is either a form of innovation - or a kind of 
				process that occurs before innovation - or is a kind of 
				preliminary step to innovation.

Catalysts:		improvisation - turbulent circumstances - spontaneous situations - unprecedented 
				Circumstances - truncated time horizons
Innovation - enhanced by formalizing the process of improvisation - or establishing or 
	practicing improvisation - having a process in place specifically for developing 
	novel solutions to unprecedented situations


Limitations:		ninety percent of innovations fail
Research showing reduced significance of information technology on organizational 
Outcomes
Organizational Wisdom - highest correlative variable to improvisational success - may 
potentially be highest among more established incumbent organizations - and less 
so among more recently established organizations.
In Business Ethics research, the virtue based ethical framework occupies a niche area, even 
within the information systems discipline - business ethics, the majority of business 
ethics scholarship - focuses on morality (“deontology”) or optimization as an 
ethical framework (“utilitarianism”)
Research based on subjects or observees or participants based in the united states


3.1 Norfolk Southern Corporation. (224). Form 10-K Annual Report.

Conclusions:	The East Palestine, Ohio derailment, cost 1.1 billion is an Example of a lack of a certain organizational virtue, they
				had all the technology in place to determine safety issues and set up maintenance to avert the issues, but for 
				one reason or another, they didn’t take the actions necessary to prevent the disaster

3.2 The Boeing Company. (2024). Form 10-K Annual Report.

Conclusions:	Similar to the issues at Norfolk Southern Corporation


...

Module 3: IT-Enabled Innovation 

3.1: The Relation Between It And Organizational Innovation 

1: The Role Of It In Organizational Innovation
 
correlations: 	number of servers to firm performance
computing capacity to firm performance
storage capacity to firm performance
number of patents to it investments
it expertise and firm performance
patents filed to commercialized products
moderate competition stimulates innovation
intense competition depresses innovation

variables:		productivity 
sales performance 
profitability 
value added 
stock returns 
return on investment
Economies of scale
Architectural flexibility
Diminishing returns
Limited impact

influences:		firm alignment and orientation
			posture
			governance
			internal conflict
			internal and external context
group conflict hinders adoption
actively fostering innovation
informal mechanisms
industry dynamics
gender diversity
Knowledge integration
Key actors

frameworks:	resource based view
			capabilities based perspective
industry convergence
Organizational innovation system

cases:			polaroid - misalignment
			xerox - failure to capitalize
			yahoo - failure to capitalize
			hospitality incumbents - dismissive of disruptors
			pharmaceutical companies - r&d failures lead to patent
acquisition resulting in depressed firm performance

limitations:		knowledge gaps
			outcome measurement
			Conceptual abstraction hinders implementation
			Difficulties in establishing causation between variables
			
2: The Nonlinear Influence Of Harmonious Information Technology 


Frameworks: 	HITA - Harmonious IT affordance
			linear vs Non-linear & quadratic correlations
Affordances not inherent in people or artifacts, but
 organizational relationships
Distinctions between Affordances  & impediments 
Resonance - HITA alignment preserves organizational 
memory 
Organizational inertia - delays in implementation
Adaptation
Paradox - tensions between interdependent elements
Exploratory innovation
Exploitative Innovation


limitations:		Few studies use non-linear frameworks
			Most studies assume linear relationships


Variables:		IT Affordance
			IT appropriation


Guidance:		Promote = positive hita or impede = negative HITA
				Either situation can be leveraged to produce innovation
And innovative solutions
			Managing tensions to promote innovations
			Finding and leveraging existing paradoxes to stimulate
innovation - converting tensions into synergies

Examples:		New Collaborations tools that don’t integrate well with 
Existing Organizational memory tools, reducing HITA
Counter-intuitive - when innovation increases despite increasing
organizational misalignment

Perspectives:	IT Affordance misalignment may prevent standardization 
or an effort toward homogeneity and uniformity - or it may be perceived in this manner - but it is exactly this misalignment that results in novel solutions as disparate structures attempt to integrate with one another.
			It’s the challenges created by dissonance, and the need to resolve 
that dissonance - the conflicts created by that dissonance - that results in innovation, and innovate solutions
Definitions:	Positive HITA is when an organization is operating synergistically
			Negative HITA is when an organization is operating with creative
 Dissonance, or, displays paradoxical characteristics
The quadratic relationship between innovation and HITA is that 
innovation is increases as synergies increase, but also as dissonance increases
			Paradox refers to conflict within an organization, or
misalignment within an organization, or dissonance within an organization - even though it may be paradoxical
That innovation can increase as dissonance increases, paradox is not used to describe this phenomenon, the term counter-intuitive is used in this circumstance
			Coalignment - in contrast to dissonance - a kind of synergy
			Affordance Theory - what information technology allows human
users to do - affordance can increase as an operator becomes more adept at using a particular artifact of information technology - affordance is also - it affordance also depends on the goals of the user. - a crm doesn’t do much for a person interested in programming - an IDE doesn’t do much for a person looking to close a deal.
			Types of IT Affordance - Collaborative Affordance - 
organizational Memory Affordance - process management affordance
			Affordance - what is allowed - what is enabled
			Organizational inertia - describes the difficulties an 
organization may have in changing course or changing direction - in HITA terms - HITA = Zero
			Orthogonal - do not influence one another, either in a positive 
way or a negative way

2.1 Why Microtribes Are Wrecking Company Growth Plans

Dynamics:		Market fragmentation - has been increasing in an increasingly granular way - allowed by changes in how people 
				connect with one another
			Examples of how incumbents have adapted - have to combine some functions - keep other functions separate - these 
				can be used to describe when organizations 
					VF Corporation
					Match Group
					Omnicom
					Publicis
			Technologies change the way people interact - which changes the sizes of market segments - which changes how 
				companies manage product lineups - which changes how organizations are segmented
			I can demonstrate the non-linear/quadratic/parabolic/u-shaped relationship by using illustrations from 
				Fragmented organizations - VF Corp. - Match - Meta - Berkshire Hathaway
				Integrated Organizations - Apple - Google
				Mixed Integrated Organizations - Amazon
				


3: Strategic Relevance Of Organizational Virtues Enabled By IT

Terminology:	COPs - communities of practice - a conceptual framework for
Organizations.
Concepts:		Improvisation as innovation - improvisation involves developing
				novel solutions to address novel situations - and should be 
				considered a form of innovation - and should be fostered
				or promoted by an organization to address urgent and
				unpredictable, and unanticipated challenges
			Organizational Wisdom - required to improvise successfully - has
				a positive effect on the ability to improvise
			Mediating Variables - Mediating Factors - IT affordance doesn’t 
				have a direct connection to innovation - it’s mediated 
				through virtues and capabilities that can foster or hinder 
				Innovation.
			IT Capabilities are distinct from IT affordances - capabilities refer 
				to what can be done - affordances, specifically the aspect of 
				how technology is appropriated for a purpose - how 
				technologies might be used - a GPU could be used for 
				enhancing a computer game - or processing a large 
				language model - or processing a blockchain or 
				cryptocurrency - a GPU is capable of performing 
				calculations, but what functions a GPU affords to the user 
				depends on how the user appropriates or uses the GPU or
				what application the user uses it for.

Virtues:		Courage
			Justice - distributive and corrective
			Wisdom
			Temperance - particularly relevant during periods of radical 
				organizational change - needed to reduce anxiety, panic, 
				And Despair that coincides with radical organizational 
				change - Organizational Temperance serves to prevent or 
				reduce chaos

Frameworks:	The framework for organizational virtues is an extension of the 
				business ethics
			Organizational IT affordances - collaborative, process 
				management, and memory - Which in turn enable
				Organizational Virtues - These organizational virtues 
				determine the success of organizational improvisation - 
				improvisation is either a form of innovation - or a kind of 
				process that occurs before innovation - or is a kind of 
				preliminary step to innovation.

Catalysts:		improvisation - turbulent circumstances - spontaneous situations - unprecedented 
				Circumstances - truncated time horizons
Innovation - enhanced by formalizing the process of improvisation - or establishing or 
	practicing improvisation - having a process in place specifically for developing 
	novel solutions to unprecedented situations


Limitations:		ninety percent of innovations fail
Research showing reduced significance of information technology on organizational 
Outcomes
Organizational Wisdom - highest correlative variable to improvisational success - may 
potentially be highest among more established incumbent organizations - and less 
so among more recently established organizations.
In Business Ethics research, the virtue based ethical framework occupies a niche area, even 
within the information systems discipline - business ethics, the majority of business 
ethics scholarship - focuses on morality (“deontology”) or optimization as an 
ethical framework (“utilitarianism”)
Research based on subjects or observees or participants based in the united states


3.1 Norfolk Southern Corporation. (224). Form 10-K Annual Report.

Conclusions:	The East Palestine, Ohio derailment, cost 1.1 billion is an Example of a lack of a certain organizational virtue, they
				had all the technology in place to determine safety issues and set up maintenance to avert the issues, but for 
				one reason or another, they didn’t take the actions necessary to prevent the disaster

3.2 The Boeing Company. (2024). Form 10-K Annual Report.

Conclusions:	Similar to the issues at Norfolk Southern Corporation







4: Information Technology And Organizational Innovation: 
Challenges:	Inconsistencies in literature
			Limitations on areas of study - Organizational courage - risk tolerance - risk aversion - and fit
			Limitations of agency in a corporate context
Concepts:		Fit -HITA, and how HITA influences organizational courage
			Gestalt - coherence of internal structures
			Stratification of Fit: proposes 3 levels of fit Level 1 - Level 2 - Level 3
			Actualization - application and implementation
			Innovation - 2 types - exploratory - exploitative - exploitative meaning commercializable - actually - it seems both 
				exploratory and exploitative are for commercial applications - exploratory refers to innovating new 
				products - exploitative refers to innovating existing products - exploratory innovation is radical - 
				Exploitative is Incremental. Exploratory innovation is more disruptive.
			Actualizing affordances - Requires experimentation, changes, tinkering - these processes can pose a perceived risk 
				that a less courageous organization may be averse to, and therefore will never benefit from affordances 
				that are never implemented or actualized.
			Moderation - one variable has an effect on another variable, but that intensity of that impact is affected by a
				third variable
			Mediation -  one variable has an effect on another variable, but this effect can only occur through an 
				intermediate variable, or intermediary, that transmits the effect from the first variable, to the second 
				Variable
			Profile deviation - expectations vs reality
			Matching - two variables
			Covariance
			Gestalt
			
			
Frameworks:	Agility -  the ability to adapt to changing circumstances
Terminology:	Organizational Courage - refers to the ability to take risks - 
			Fit - Alignment and harmony - FIT & HITA refer to the convergence of IT infrastructure and organizational
				objectives in a way that serves as a catalyst for innovation - fosters innovation
			Circumspect - risk averse - risk avoidance - wary or risk
			Transitive Effect - 
			Salience = prevalence -
			Parsimonious - used in this context to mean focused
			Spurious - dubious or contrived

Conflicts:		Exploratory innovation by a firm may create products that conflict with existing product lines the following are 
			a list of companies that innovated products that conflicted with existing products:
				Vanguard - passively managed index funds
				State Street - Exchange traded funds
				Xerox - GUI, Personal Computers
				Polaroid - Digital Cameras, digital photography, digital imaging
				Alphabet - Large Language Models
				Booking holdings - Vacation Rentals
				IBM - Personal Computers , Servers
				Altria - vape products
				Microsoft - Mobile Operating Systems, Mobile Devices
				Corteva - Bioengineered crops
				Blockbuster - video streaming services
				Palm, blackberry, motorola - touchscreen smartphones
				DR Horton, Lennar Greystone - Modular construction techniques
				Atari - console gaming - computer gaming - multiplayer gaming
Reflections:	Affordances must be actualized, having the best tools, having the best technology means nothing if it isn’t put
				into use, it’s useless if it isn’t used - and it’s useless if it isn’t used to produce anything, like to innovate new 
				products, or iterate and improve upon existing products. These new innovations have the potential to create 
				uncertainty and perceived risks to an organization, and an organization must have courage to overcome				 the fears of risk and uncertainty to actualize technology to innovate.
			What the data shows is that the rewards are there for organizations  willing to take risks, for organizations that
				have The organizational courage to take prudent and well calculated risks and address the uncertainties 
				that come with those, rewards, those innovations, however, in order for these rewards to materialize for an
				Organization, information Technology affordances must be actualized in combination with a strong 
				culture of organizational courage.
			There is a point in the article that shows that there is a strong relationship between exploratory and exploitative
				 innovation, that when one measurement measures high, that the other will also measure high. One thing we 
				discussed in class was that, a long series of incremental, exploitative innovations, can result in - or can add 
				up to something similarly to an exploratory, disruptive innovation


...

Module 3: IT-Enabled Innovation 

3.1: The Relation Between It And Organizational Innovation 

1: The Role Of It In Organizational Innovation
 
correlations: 	number of servers to firm performance
computing capacity to firm performance
storage capacity to firm performance
number of patents to it investments
it expertise and firm performance
patents filed to commercialized products
moderate competition stimulates innovation
intense competition depresses innovation

variables:		productivity 
sales performance 
profitability 
value added 
stock returns 
return on investment
Economies of scale
Architectural flexibility
Diminishing returns
Limited impact

influences:		firm alignment and orientation
			posture
			governance
			internal conflict
			internal and external context
group conflict hinders adoption
actively fostering innovation
informal mechanisms
industry dynamics
gender diversity
Knowledge integration
Key actors

frameworks:	resource based view
			capabilities based perspective
industry convergence
Organizational innovation system

cases:			polaroid - misalignment
			xerox - failure to capitalize
			yahoo - failure to capitalize
			hospitality incumbents - dismissive of disruptors
			pharmaceutical companies - r&d failures lead to patent
acquisition resulting in depressed firm performance

limitations:		knowledge gaps
			outcome measurement
			Conceptual abstraction hinders implementation
			Difficulties in establishing causation between variables
			
2: The Nonlinear Influence Of Harmonious Information Technology 


Frameworks: 	HITA - Harmonious IT affordance
			linear vs Non-linear & quadratic correlations
Affordances not inherent in people or artifacts, but
 organizational relationships
Distinctions between Affordances  & impediments 
Resonance - HITA alignment preserves organizational 
memory 
Organizational inertia - delays in implementation
Adaptation
Paradox - tensions between interdependent elements
Exploratory innovation
Exploitative Innovation


limitations:		Few studies use non-linear frameworks
			Most studies assume linear relationships


Variables:		IT Affordance
			IT appropriation


Guidance:		Promote = positive hita or impede = negative HITA
				Either situation can be leveraged to produce innovation
And innovative solutions
			Managing tensions to promote innovations
			Finding and leveraging existing paradoxes to stimulate
innovation - converting tensions into synergies

Examples:		New Collaborations tools that don’t integrate well with 
Existing Organizational memory tools, reducing HITA
Counter-intuitive - when innovation increases despite increasing
organizational misalignment

Perspectives:	IT Affordance misalignment may prevent standardization 
or an effort toward homogeneity and uniformity - or it may be perceived in this manner - but it is exactly this misalignment that results in novel solutions as disparate structures attempt to integrate with one another.
			It’s the challenges created by dissonance, and the need to resolve 
that dissonance - the conflicts created by that dissonance - that results in innovation, and innovate solutions
Definitions:	Positive HITA is when an organization is operating synergistically
			Negative HITA is when an organization is operating with creative
 Dissonance, or, displays paradoxical characteristics
The quadratic relationship between innovation and HITA is that 
innovation is increases as synergies increase, but also as dissonance increases
			Paradox refers to conflict within an organization, or
misalignment within an organization, or dissonance within an organization - even though it may be paradoxical
That innovation can increase as dissonance increases, paradox is not used to describe this phenomenon, the term counter-intuitive is used in this circumstance
			Coalignment - in contrast to dissonance - a kind of synergy
			Affordance Theory - what information technology allows human
users to do - affordance can increase as an operator becomes more adept at using a particular artifact of information technology - affordance is also - it affordance also depends on the goals of the user. - a crm doesn’t do much for a person interested in programming - an IDE doesn’t do much for a person looking to close a deal.
			Types of IT Affordance - Collaborative Affordance - 
organizational Memory Affordance - process management affordance
			Affordance - what is allowed - what is enabled
			Organizational inertia - describes the difficulties an 
organization may have in changing course or changing direction - in HITA terms - HITA = Zero
			Orthogonal - do not influence one another, either in a positive 
way or a negative way

2.1 Why Microtribes Are Wrecking Company Growth Plans

Dynamics:		Market fragmentation - has been increasing in an increasingly granular way - allowed by changes in how people 
				connect with one another
			Examples of how incumbents have adapted - have to combine some functions - keep other functions separate - these 
				can be used to describe when organizations 
					VF Corporation
					Match Group
					Omnicom
					Publicis
			Technologies change the way people interact - which changes the sizes of market segments - which changes how 
				companies manage product lineups - which changes how organizations are segmented
			I can demonstrate the non-linear/quadratic/parabolic/u-shaped relationship by using illustrations from 
				Fragmented organizations - VF Corp. - Match - Meta - Berkshire Hathaway
				Integrated Organizations - Apple - Google
				Mixed Integrated Organizations - Amazon
				


3: Strategic Relevance Of Organizational Virtues Enabled By IT

Terminology:	COPs - communities of practice - a conceptual framework for
Organizations.
Concepts:		Improvisation as innovation - improvisation involves developing
				novel solutions to address novel situations - and should be 
				considered a form of innovation - and should be fostered
				or promoted by an organization to address urgent and
				unpredictable, and unanticipated challenges
			Organizational Wisdom - required to improvise successfully - has
				a positive effect on the ability to improvise
			Mediating Variables - Mediating Factors - IT affordance doesn’t 
				have a direct connection to innovation - it’s mediated 
				through virtues and capabilities that can foster or hinder 
				Innovation.
			IT Capabilities are distinct from IT affordances - capabilities refer 
				to what can be done - affordances, specifically the aspect of 
				how technology is appropriated for a purpose - how 
				technologies might be used - a GPU could be used for 
				enhancing a computer game - or processing a large 
				language model - or processing a blockchain or 
				cryptocurrency - a GPU is capable of performing 
				calculations, but what functions a GPU affords to the user 
				depends on how the user appropriates or uses the GPU or
				what application the user uses it for.

Virtues:		Courage
			Justice - distributive and corrective
			Wisdom
			Temperance - particularly relevant during periods of radical 
				organizational change - needed to reduce anxiety, panic, 
				And Despair that coincides with radical organizational 
				change - Organizational Temperance serves to prevent or 
				reduce chaos

Frameworks:	The framework for organizational virtues is an extension of the 
				business ethics
			Organizational IT affordances - collaborative, process 
				management, and memory - Which in turn enable
				Organizational Virtues - These organizational virtues 
				determine the success of organizational improvisation - 
				improvisation is either a form of innovation - or a kind of 
				process that occurs before innovation - or is a kind of 
				preliminary step to innovation.

Catalysts:		improvisation - turbulent circumstances - spontaneous situations - unprecedented 
				Circumstances - truncated time horizons
Innovation - enhanced by formalizing the process of improvisation - or establishing or 
	practicing improvisation - having a process in place specifically for developing 
	novel solutions to unprecedented situations


Limitations:		ninety percent of innovations fail
Research showing reduced significance of information technology on organizational 
Outcomes
Organizational Wisdom - highest correlative variable to improvisational success - may 
potentially be highest among more established incumbent organizations - and less 
so among more recently established organizations.
In Business Ethics research, the virtue based ethical framework occupies a niche area, even 
within the information systems discipline - business ethics, the majority of business 
ethics scholarship - focuses on morality (“deontology”) or optimization as an 
ethical framework (“utilitarianism”)
Research based on subjects or observees or participants based in the united states


3.1 Norfolk Southern Corporation. (224). Form 10-K Annual Report.

Conclusions:	The East Palestine, Ohio derailment, cost 1.1 billion is an Example of a lack of a certain organizational virtue, they
				had all the technology in place to determine safety issues and set up maintenance to avert the issues, but for 
				one reason or another, they didn’t take the actions necessary to prevent the disaster

3.2 The Boeing Company. (2024). Form 10-K Annual Report.

Conclusions:	Similar to the issues at Norfolk Southern Corporation







4: Information Technology And Organizational Innovation: 
Challenges:	Inconsistencies in literature
			Limitations on areas of study - Organizational courage - risk tolerance - risk aversion - and fit
			Limitations of agency in a corporate context
Concepts:		Fit -HITA, and how HITA influences organizational courage
			Gestalt - coherence of internal structures
			Stratification of Fit: proposes 3 levels of fit Level 1 - Level 2 - Level 3
			Actualization - application and implementation
			Innovation - 2 types - exploratory - exploitative - exploitative meaning commercializable - actually - it seems both 
				exploratory and exploitative are for commercial applications - exploratory refers to innovating new 
				products - exploitative refers to innovating existing products - exploratory innovation is radical - 
				Exploitative is Incremental. Exploratory innovation is more disruptive.
			Actualizing affordances - Requires experimentation, changes, tinkering - these processes can pose a perceived risk 
				that a less courageous organization may be averse to, and therefore will never benefit from affordances 
				that are never implemented or actualized.
			Moderation - one variable has an effect on another variable, but that intensity of that impact is affected by a
				third variable
			Mediation -  one variable has an effect on another variable, but this effect can only occur through an 
				intermediate variable, or intermediary, that transmits the effect from the first variable, to the second 
				Variable
			Profile deviation - expectations vs reality
			Matching - two variables
			Covariance
			Gestalt
			
			
Frameworks:	Agility -  the ability to adapt to changing circumstances
Terminology:	Organizational Courage - refers to the ability to take risks - 
			Fit - Alignment and harmony - FIT & HITA refer to the convergence of IT infrastructure and organizational
				objectives in a way that serves as a catalyst for innovation - fosters innovation
			Circumspect - risk averse - risk avoidance - wary or risk
			Transitive Effect - 
			Salience = prevalence -
			Parsimonious - used in this context to mean focused
			Spurious - dubious or contrived

Conflicts:		Exploratory innovation by a firm may create products that conflict with existing product lines the following are 
			a list of companies that innovated products that conflicted with existing products:
				Vanguard - passively managed index funds
				State Street - Exchange traded funds
				Xerox - GUI, Personal Computers
				Polaroid - Digital Cameras, digital photography, digital imaging
				Alphabet - Large Language Models
				Booking holdings - Vacation Rentals
				IBM - Personal Computers , Servers
				Altria - vape products
				Microsoft - Mobile Operating Systems, Mobile Devices
				Corteva - Bioengineered crops
				Blockbuster - video streaming services
				Palm, blackberry, motorola - touchscreen smartphones
				DR Horton, Lennar Greystone - Modular construction techniques
				Atari - console gaming - computer gaming - multiplayer gaming
Reflections:	Affordances must be actualized, having the best tools, having the best technology means nothing if it isn’t put
				into use, it’s useless if it isn’t used - and it’s useless if it isn’t used to produce anything, like to innovate new 
				products, or iterate and improve upon existing products. These new innovations have the potential to create 
				uncertainty and perceived risks to an organization, and an organization must have courage to overcome				 the fears of risk and uncertainty to actualize technology to innovate.
			What the data shows is that the rewards are there for organizations  willing to take risks, for organizations that
				have The organizational courage to take prudent and well calculated risks and address the uncertainties 
				that come with those, rewards, those innovations, however, in order for these rewards to materialize for an
				Organization, information Technology affordances must be actualized in combination with a strong 
				culture of organizational courage.
			There is a point in the article that shows that there is a strong relationship between exploratory and exploitative
				 innovation, that when one measurement measures high, that the other will also measure high. One thing we 
				discussed in class was that, a long series of incremental, exploitative innovations, can result in - or can add 
				up to something similarly to an exploratory, disruptive innovation
			


3.2: Disruptive Innovations With It

1: Disruptive Innovation: Conceptual Foundations And Research Opportunities 
Disruption:		The term disruption - Currently Overused - core concepts misunderstood - disruption usually occurs at the
				lower-end of the market. Incumbents produce over-developed products. New entrants develop inexpensive
				products.
					Fintech -	
					Rideshare -
					Vacation Rentals -
					Browser software - 
			The technology isn’t usually innovative, but the business model is what is disruptive
			Low-end encroachment - movement from the low-end of the market, upstream, to the higher end of the market is 
				Usually something incumbents tend not to pay attention to - and this results in an increased chance of 
				being disrupted
			Industry-Wide or Strategic Disruptions
				Green Revolution
				Automation, AI, robotics, drones
				Sensor Technologies, wireless sensor networks
				Additive Manufacturing techniques, 3d printing, digital production
Methods:		Used language analysis to screen 1078 research papers published between 1978 - 2016
			Diffusion patterns
			Ex-ante
			Ex-post
			Post-hoc conclusions
Dynamics:		incumbents, established organizations lose ground when innovations occur due to a focus on existing, 
				sophisticated customers
			It has been suggested that organizations develop units that guard against disruptions rather than focus on 
				customer needs
			Leadership structures that cause organizations to be disrupted, increase the risk of being disrupted, and have 
				difficulties adapting and reacting to disruptions
			Legislative barriers prevented or interfered with the adoption of e-readers in japan - copyrights and intellectual 
				property protections specifically



2: Agility In Responding To Disruptive Digital Innovation
Focus:		small and medium sized enterprises - firms

Terminology:	SME - small to medium sized enterprises
			DDI - disruptive digital innovation
			Rigidity & Agility - refers to or connects to the concept of organizational inertia and agility
			

Cases:			Kodak - failure to respond to digital photography
			Nokia - failure to respond to smartphones
			AirBNB - how will it adapt as the market for vacation rentals becomes increasingly competitive
			Uber Technologies - 
			Elixir Technologies - coding changes - programming disruptions - software delivery distribution disruptions - 
				moved from business reporting - to business intelligence software - then to providing this service through 
				the cloud or through a cloud based application. - Developed a system for dispatching taxis to taxi stands, 
				but this was disrupted by ride-hailing services, so the technology was modified to serve mass transit stations
				Elixir was in a somewhat unique position - since they were in a business reporting, business intelligence, 
				business analytics software business, they often had extensive external network relationships since they 
				had to work with a variety of businesses - through these networks, the leadership teams were often more 
				creative, and more open to new business ideas. Converted the transit system software to a smart-transit 
				software system. from off the shelf packages - to cloud based software as a service - from business reporting 
				software to business analytics software. Had to adapt to mobile devices - pdas - and later to smart phones - 
				to allow delivery of the software to mobile devices

Concepts:		Agility is the key factor in surviving disruptions caused by digital innovations - requires the ability to detect and 
				respond to the changes caused by the innovations
			Some innovations may require the combination of several different technologies, or may require the maturity of 
				some technologies to occur, prerequisite developments to take place.
			SME - do not require large amounts of slack resources - refers to emergency fund style resources - larger 
				organizations require more slack resources in a way that someone with higher monthly expenses may require 
				a larger emergency fund. SMEs tend to have owner/managers who tend to have a mindset or approach that is 
				different from someone who is an employee/manager
			External network relationships - people outside a firm who can assist an SME in various ways, support an SME in 
				various ways, provide external competencies, external insights, alternative viewpoints, identify 
				Opportunities
			SME - does experience greater resource constraints compared to larger organizations
			Organizational Ambidexterity - managing exploratory, and exploitative innovation at the same time.
			Exploratory vs Exploitative innovation - in elixer’s case - mentioned that 3 out of 10 exploitative pilot projects 
				work out, compared to 1 out of 10 for exploratory pilot projects
			Responding to changes - develop capabilities - preventing rigidities - sensing requires leadership to have strong 
				external networks boundary openness
			Sensing Capabilities - being able to detect changes in innovation that can disrupt a business.
			SME - has benefits as well as challenges, they don’t require extensive resource slack, or fall back resources, but 
				they also don’t have - this also is an issue because they may not have enough resources to reconfigure the 
				Business or to adapt in the necessary ways after a disruption.



3: The Disruptive Information Technology Innovation Model
Frameworks:	“disruptive information technology innovation model (DITIM)
				adoption timing
				disruptive innovation cycle
			Variables that Differ between early and late adopters
				(1) adoption rate of radical IT innovations, 
				(2) strong order effects on downstream innovations related to the amount of innovation, 
				(3) perceived radicalness of innovations and 
				(4) strong effects on downstream innovations related to the radicalness of innovation.
			DITIM explains innovation patterns over time and articulates their sequence across three types of IT innovations: 
				(1) bases 
				(2) processes 
				(3) services
			Radical Innovations
				learning barriers - high during early period of innovation cycle, 
							    lower later on due to larger knowledge base

Timelines:		1995–1999, an early period of rapid, broad and deep industry-wide innovation
			2000 -  onward, a period in which industry-wide innovation slowed, 
			became dramatically standardized and posed lower learning requirements 
			for new entrants relative to the earlier stage.

Conclusions:	Goals of 
			(1) demonstrating the importance of considering temporal factors in the study of disruptive innovation 
			(2) illustrating that innovation types matter when theorizing about IT-innovation creation and adoption
			service innovation: primary engine of process innovation during the entire disruptive IT-innovation cycle
				Service innovation drives process innovation
			base technologies: ‘mature’ and become more standardized and powerful, they have more significant effects.
			process innovations: take more time to mature and evolve
			Process innovations: Process innovations may also have early substitutive effects when the causal links between 
				the base technologies and their effects are poorly understood and are later replaced with complementary
				Effects.
Reflections:	There is an early and late innovation cycle
			And there are early and late adopters of innovations”
			
			


4: The Disruptive Nature Of Information Technology Innovations
“Context:		This article deals with or addressed how the internet impacted or had an impact in the United States and Finland. 
				It was written in 2003, it mentions how the distribution of information shifted away from mainframe 
				distribution to internet distribution
			Disruptive Innovation - structural features distinct from interactive processes
			disruptive architectural innovations - deviate radically from existing architectures - May be appropriations of 
			latent technologies or adaptations of latent technologies to new user needs

			Innovation Diffusion Trajectory”
	“In their simplest form, IT innovations involve only a technological component—changes in hardware and software that are new to an industry or adopters—but they are often augmented with complementary organizational innovations including new forms of cognition, meaning, work process, business process, or organizational structure.”
Implications:	correct timing in the diffusion of disruptive innovations
				Learning curve is often steep 
Expertise in multiple areas is extremely rare - dedicated specialists are often required.

Type I system development processes - services
Type II - administrative functions
Type III - core business processes

3.3: Innovating With Artificial Intelligence
 
1: Artificial Intelligence In Organizations 
		
		Automatically managing business processes
		Machine Learning - Automated algorithms for detecting fraudulent financial transactions
						 - Manufacturing in a factory
						 - Automated delivery robots
		History - Started in 1970's
				- Domains such as psychology - linguistics - biology - mathematics - cognitive sciences - neurosciences
				- were not initially able to refine their own processes, currently can do refinements of their own processes
					- process automation - not considered state of the art - such as robots in a manufacturing of warehouse setting
				- used to identify anomalies in data sets
				
		Substitution of unemployment - vs substitution or automation of specific tasks
				- Routine
				- semi-routine
				- cognitive tasks
				- non-routine tasks
				
		used for productivity increases
		
		some applications use deep learning and machine learning to refine their own processes 
			other applications require input from experts to refine their processes
				
		Financial Applications - Insurance Underwriting - Credit approval - Fraud detection - fraudulent transaction identification

2: AI Innovation Typology

	Different Current Users	
		used by credit card companies to detect fraud
		ai assistants like siri and alexa
		medical uses of AI to detect Illnesses
		
		Professionals need to determine if Artificial intelligence will enhance their professions, or serve to undermine and devalue their professions.
		
		Structured Data
			this type of data is schematically standardized and organized 
				inventory figures  sales data  production levels  stock exchange data
		unstructured Data
				IoT // social media posts // blog posts // reviews // tweets
					IoT - the Internet of things - how objects are connected to the Internet
		
		processes
			pre-processes
				Natural Language Understanding
					converts spoken words into text
						statistical modeling and machine learning
				computer vision
			
			main processes
				problem solving
				reasoning
				Machine Learning
					lets AI systems enhance their performance  initially allowed
					artificial neural networks - consist of a sequence of layers where data is processed
						in one layer before being handed off to and processed by a deeper layer.
			
			outputs
				natural language generation
				image creation
				robotics
			Technological discontinuities
				when a new technology offers so much of an advantage that no increase in efficiencies, scale, or design to existing technologies can compete
					this relates back to
						exploratory and disruptive innovation
						and
						exploitative and incremental innovation
			
			autonomous vehicles
			
			competence enhancing
			
				do not change fundamentals, increase and serve as a tool to existing skills.
			

			
			
			
			competence destroying
			
				render existing skills obsolete
			
			Artificial generalized intelligence - strong AI - to simulate human thought
			
			Applied Artificial Intelligence - for tasks that are commercially viable

			Artificial super intelligence - 
			
			Things to consider
				
				implementation - there is a need for interoperability between programs - this can be difficult if API's are
				not compatible with one another.
				
				Data Quality - the quality of the data used to train AI models could be skewed, Inaccurate, biased, not representative - or poorly defined.
							 - low quality inputs result in low quality outputs by the AI models.
							 
				Privacy Measures - need to be in place to product individuals, large amounts of data are required to train AI models.

3: Artificial Intelligence (AI): Multidisciplinary Perspectives 

			Two Types or goals
				to perform specific tasks
				to think like a human
				
			deep neural networks to improve AI, may not improve these tools.
			realistic limits of AI, the - it's to serve as a tool, and move up the value chain - while using AI - 
			the concept of AI replacing humans is a dated concept.
			
			Application domains 
			The AI literature has identified several separate domains in which the technology can be applied: 
			
			Digital Imaging, 
			Education, 
				improve teacher effectiveness
					tutoring systems
					library users
					library processes
					intelligent narrative technologies 
					staffing requirements
				student engagement
					game-based learning environments

			Government, 
			Healthcare,
				medical informatics 
				loopthink - limitation of medical AI-loopthink
					type of implicit bias
					which does not  perform correct reappraisal of information or revision
					
					Weak loopthink refers to the intrinsic inability of computer 
						intelligence to redirect executive data flow because of its fixed internal 
						hard writing, un-editable sectors of its operating system, or unalterable 
						lines of its programme code. 

					Strong loopthink refers to AI suppression 
						due to internalisation of the ethical framework. 
					
				This is interesting - it seems to refer when the AI tool which should train itself in a way that improves itself
			Manufacturing, 
			Robotics and 
			Supply Chain. 
			
			Data Visualizations
			
			Data Challenges
				Disagreements about data standards creates challenges 
					a cardiac imaging - there were - there was a need to standardize data across institutions
				issues about transparency and reliability
				interpretations of imagery proved to be an obstacle
				the dimensionality obstacle
			
			Social Challenges
				Unrealistic expectations
				not
				fear of job losses
				fear of loss of participation in society
				
			Human cognitive flexibility
				the ability to interpret unstructured data
				
				
			SME - Society of Manufacturing Engineers
			Small and midsize enterprises (SMEs)  
				are businesses that have revenues, assets, or a number of employees below a certain 
				threshold. Each country has its own definition of what constitutes a small and midsize enterprise.
					- investopedia (2024)
					
			Critically, in subsets of these components, the data science may be handled independently,
			for example by 
			product or cloud suppliers, with different 
			viewpoints. So the following question arises: how can the inferences 
			delivered by different AI components be 
			
			integrated coherently when they may 
			be based on 
				different data, and subject to 
				different ecosystem conventions 
								(and the associated 
				quality differences) (Walton, 2018a; Walton, 2018b)? 
				
			This question can be retitled as the discrimination problem
			
		one of the earliest uses of AI was
			the chess game computer
				
		different levels of automation are appropriate for different types of tasks
			manual
			autonomous
			
				how much is given to a human, how much and what kind of input a human user gives to the machine
				
		situational awareness
			there is an expectation that there will be increasing issues with situational 
			awareness because humans don't have the same level of alertness or cognizance of events
			that they themselves do not create - whether that change is made by an AI, or another human,
			so as more things become automated, and more changes are made - or more actions are made by machines
			situational awareness is expected to decrease.		
			
		Logistics	
			
			Amazon
			
			Uber
			
		Value of AI should be highest when it reaches maturity - unlikely to be commoditized - meaning standardized product or indistinguishable from other AI products.
		
		consumer preferences
				can make or assist in providing customers with more
				more validated purchasing decisions. frequency of marketing messages
				automated bidding on marketing Artifacts
				advertising - machines generate content - consumers feel like they are being targeted
				people are afraid of AI that they don't really have a full understanding of
				
		I can't believe how long this article is. it's taking forever to get through.
		
		Marketing Implications
			
				Assists in designing better marketing material
				allows advertisers to better understand the data
				sales teams to meet their sales targets and goals
			
		AI resulted in reduced production rate at AirBus
		 
				"For instance, Ransbotham, Kiron, Gerbert, 
				and Reeves (2017) highlights that AI reduced the production rate in Air 
				Bus."
			
				"A production rate is a quantity of production accomplished over a specific period of time and 
				realistic production rates are the key in determining reasonable contract times for construction projects."
				
				"In manufacturing, production rate is typically measured as the quantity of goods manufactured per hour, day, week, month, or any other relevant time frame."
				
				"For example, let's say that workers at a manufacturing plant can produce 5,000 units per week using 50 hours of labor. As a result, 
				the production rate per hour would be 100 units (5,000 / 50 hours) minus any defective units. The 100 unit per hour 
				production rate could be used as a baseline number for comparative purposes. "
				

				"In a wide range of areas AI can be deployed (please see for a recent 
				review, Duan et al., 2019). For instance, Ransbotham, Kiron, Gerbert, 
				and Reeves (2017) highlights that AI reduced the production rate in Air" 
					
					"Ransbotham, S., Kiron, D., Gerbert, P., & Reeves, M. (2017). Reshaping business with 
					artificial intelligence: Closing the gap between ambition and action. MIT Sloan 
					Management Review, 59(1)."

					"Gerbert, P., Reeves, M., Ransbotham, S., Kiron, D., & Spira, M. (2018). Global 
					competition with AI in business: How China differs. MIT Sloan Management Review 
					(July)." 					 
					
					
		Legal and Regulatory Implications
		
				how to determine liability and accountability issues.
				
				fake news and misleading information
				
				Human Rights implications
					the right not to be measured
					not to participate or be used to train the AI models in question
					
				Government Adoption of AI tools and applications
					efficiencies
					public hospitals using analytics tools to determine outbreaks
					algorithmic opacity - when it's not known, or disclosed how a system works.
					public opinion formation through tools like social media
						influences public policy directions
					
				Smart Cities and development of 
					better city design
				
		Social Science Implications
		
				Digital haves and have-nots
				
				disrupts can create new social paradigms
					exposes people lower on the social rung to exploitation
					
				Digital inequity, and digital divide
				
				profiling and law enforcement issues. biases may be reinforced
				
				Keeping Humans at the center of the design
				
				Ethical implications of artificual Intelligence have
					not been fully contemplated and established
				

		I really can't believe how long this article is. I've been listening to this for I even don't  how many
		hours. Lord.
		
		Reinforcement Learning
				Referenced during GPT 2 development and Meta chat-bot experiments
				can have unpredictable results
				
		Deep Max Scores
			
				Framework 
				
		Blockchain and Artificial Intelligence
		
		- Reading Completed on 06:47 AM on 03/06/2024
		
			I want to say that the reading took a full 7 hours.
		
		


	3.1 Leveraging large language models for predictive chemistry


				Terminology:	Machine Learning
								Large Language Model
								LLM Training
								In context learning - this refers to how the LLM learns about a subject during the course  of a chat session, rather than fine-tuning or 
								training the model directly.		
								Inverse design - this refers to creating molecular structures - or chemicals - polymers or 
								alloys - that react in a certain way, or have a specific set of properties - I think that it 
								is called inverse design because, rather than creating a chemical, and describing its 
								properties, - the desired properties are described, and then the molecule is designed
									Generative Models
									MLM - Machine Learning Model
									LLM - Large Language Model
									First-principles theory
				                          Isomers - This is chemistry related
				Polymers- This is chemistry related
				Monomers - This is chemistry related
						Gaussian process regression - GPR
						Generative pre-trained transformer - gpt
				
				Applications:	Large Language Models and machine learning to chemistry, and physical sciences
							Computing, programming, AI, ML, LLM on Physical sciences, chemistry, and predictive
								Simulations
							Generating a specific type of dispersant - which I think is a kind of soap - generating a 
				dispersant with a specific set of characteristics
				
				Limitations:		The LLM was able to generate molecules using inverse design, or, it was able to 
				Hypothesize the existence of chemicals with a desired set of characteristics,
				But there were instances where the LLM generated invalid chemical structures
				Even if an LLM is able to generate a new chemical, that chemical still has to be synthesized
					And there are instances where it’s not really possible or practical to synthesize the
					Chemical generated by the LLM
				It can be difficult to train an LLM accurately, or train it well for accuracy because very 
				large dataset are required, and there are limitations on how many chemicals can be 
				tested and added to a given data set to train an LLM on
				
				Variations:		Using a general LLM AI tool (GPT 3) trained on chemistry documents Rather than a 
				chemistry specific AI tool, or existing chemistry simulation tools conventional machine learning models designed for chemistry
				Existing machine learning models represent chemicals or molecular structures 
					mathematically, or symbolically, or as a kind of code or program that reacts  	
				a certain way, rather than verbally. Existing machine learning models simulate 
				molecular structures in an abstract way, rather than verbally, the approach used in 
				this paper, by these researchers, describes chemicals verbally
				The GPT 3 LLM was compared with a gaussian process regression MLM
				
				Reflections:	this was a really interesting article - one of the things that I’m wondering is: if copyright 
				protection isn’t or cannot be granted to AI generated text or ai generated artwork, will patents also not be granted to ai generated chemicals? Or AI generated medicines or Pharmaceuticals? Or ai generated chemical compounds.
				AI is already used to create novel chemical structures, however, the prevailing AI tools 
				used for the purpose of generating novel chemical structures are Machine learning 
				models, rather than large language models, this research paper approaches 
				generating novel chemical structures using LLMs rather than MLMs
				
				
				Intersections:	This paper illustrates the concept of IT Affordances - LLMs have certain capabilities, and 
				how LLMs are appropriated, in this case, an LLM is appropriated for the purpose of creating novel chemical compounds - this article illustrates a novel appropriation of an existing tool.



	
	
4: Strategic Use Of AI

				Analytical tools for business strategy
					used a tool to review customer reviews on Yelp and similar websites
					and drafted a business strategy or business proposals
				
				flexibility scale customization speed innovation and decision making
				











References


Mamonov, S., & Peterson, R. (2021). The role of IT in organizational innovation – A systematic literature review. Journal of Strategic Information Systems, 30, 101696. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsis.2021.101696


Chatterjee, S., Moody, G. D., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2021). The nonlinear influence of harmonious information technology affordance on organisational innovation. Information Systems Journal, 31(3), 294–322. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12311


Chatterjee, S., Moody, G., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2015). Strategic relevance of organizational virtues enabled by information technology in organizational innovation. Journal of Management Information Systems, 32(3), 158–196. https://doi.org/10.1080/07421222.2015.1099180


Chatterjee, S., Moody, G., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2020). Information technology and organizational innovation: Harmonious information technology affordance and courage-based actualization. Journal of Strategic Information Systems, 29, 101596. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsis.2020.101596


Hopp, C., Antons, D., Kaminski, J., & Salge, T. O. (2018). Disruptive Innovation: Conceptual Foundations, Empirical Evidence, and Research Opportunities in the Digital Age. Journal of Product Innovation Management, 35(3), 446–457. https://doi.org/10.1111/jpim.12448


Chan, C. M. L., Teoh, S. Y., Yeow, A., & Pan, G. (2018). Agility in responding to disruptive digital innovation: Case study of an SME. Information Systems Journal, 29(2), 436–455. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12215


Carlo, J. L., Gaskin, J., Lyytinen, K., & Rose, G. M. (2014). Early vs. late adoption of radical information technology innovations across software development organizations: an extension of the disruptive information technology innovation model. Information Systems Journal, 24(6), 537–569. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12039


Lyytinen, K., & Rose, G. M. (2003). The disruptive nature of information technology innovations: The case of internet computing in systems development organizations. MIS Quarterly, 27(4), 557-595. https://doi.org/10.2307/30036549


Benbya, H., Pachidi, S., & Jarvenpaa, S. (2021). Special Issue Editorial: Artificial Intelligence in Organizations: Implications for Information Systems Research. Journal of the Association for Information Systems, 22(2), 281-303. https://doi.org/10.17705/1jais.00662


Paschen, U., Pitt, C., & Kietzmann, J. (2020). Artificial intelligence: Building blocks and an innovation typology. Business Horizons, 63, 147-155. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bushor.2019.10.004


Dwivedi, Y. K., Hughes, L., Ismagilova, E., Aarts, G., Coombs, C., Crick, T., ... Williams, M. D. (2021). Artificial Intelligence (AI): Multidisciplinary perspectives on emerging challenges, opportunities, and agenda for research, practice and policy. International Journal of Information Management, 57, 101994. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2019.08.002


Borges, A. F. S., Laurindo, F. J. B., Spínola, M. M., Gonçalves, R. F., & Mattos, C. A. (2021). The strategic use of artificial intelligence in the digital era: Systematic literature review and future research directions. International Journal of Information Management, 57, 102225. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2020.102225


Anderson, C., & Robey, D. (2017). Affordance potency: Explaining the actualization of technology affordances. Information and Organization, 27(2), 100-115. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infoandorg.2017.03.002


Jablonka, K. M., Schwaller, P., Ortega-Guerrero, A., & Smit, B. (2024). Leveraging large language models for predictive chemistry. Nature Machine Intelligence. https://doi.org/10.1038/s42256-023-00788-1


Patnaik, D. (2024, February 11). Why Microtribes Are Wrecking Company Growth Plans. Forbes. https://www.forbes.com/sites/devpatnaik/2024/02/11/why-microtribes-are-wrecking-company-growth-plans/?sh=3307ddba509c


Norfolk Southern Corporation. (2024). Form 10-K Annual Report. U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. https://www.sec.gov/ixviewer/ix.html?doc=/Archives/edgar/ data/702165/000070216524000005/nsc-20231231.htm


The Boeing Company. (2024). Form 10-K Annual Report. U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. https://www.sec.gov/ixviewer/ix.html?doc=/Archives/edgar/data/12927/000001292724000010/ba-20231231.htm



Module 1 													Vicky
Module 2													Kelly
Module 3 													Kenneth
Module 4 													Group Paper
4.1. The Landscape of Emerging Technologies					Vicky
4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems			Vicky
4.1.2 Editorial Emergent Tech and Organizing				Vicky
4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:								Vicky
4.1.4 Quantum Computing and Information Systems				Vicky


4.2. The Changing Nature of Work							Kelly
4.2.1 Editorial Future of Work Organizations Society		Kelly
4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work				Kelly
4.2.3 Mental Health and Information Technology				Kelly
4.2.4 Waging war from remote cubicles						Kelly

4.3 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges 				Kenneth			Group Presentation
4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 							Kenneth			Vicky
4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 								Kenneth			Kelly
4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 					Kenneth			Kenneth
4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 						Kenneth			Kenneth


https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/research_and_citation/apa_style/apa_formatting_and_style_guide/in_text_citations_author_authors.html

...

Module 3: IT-Enabled Innovation 

3.1: The Relation Between It And Organizational Innovation 

1: The Role Of It In Organizational Innovation
 
correlations: 	number of servers to firm performance
computing capacity to firm performance
storage capacity to firm performance
number of patents to it investments
it expertise and firm performance
patents filed to commercialized products
moderate competition stimulates innovation
intense competition depresses innovation

variables:		productivity 
sales performance 
profitability 
value added 
stock returns 
return on investment
Economies of scale
Architectural flexibility
Diminishing returns
Limited impact

influences:		firm alignment and orientation
			posture
			governance
			internal conflict
			internal and external context
group conflict hinders adoption
actively fostering innovation
informal mechanisms
industry dynamics
gender diversity
Knowledge integration
Key actors

frameworks:	resource based view
			capabilities based perspective
industry convergence
Organizational innovation system

cases:			polaroid - misalignment
			xerox - failure to capitalize
			yahoo - failure to capitalize
			hospitality incumbents - dismissive of disruptors
			pharmaceutical companies - r&d failures lead to patent
acquisition resulting in depressed firm performance

limitations:		knowledge gaps
			outcome measurement
			Conceptual abstraction hinders implementation
			Difficulties in establishing causation between variables
			
2: The Nonlinear Influence Of Harmonious Information Technology 


Frameworks: 	HITA - Harmonious IT affordance
			linear vs Non-linear & quadratic correlations
Affordances not inherent in people or artifacts, but
 organizational relationships
Distinctions between Affordances  & impediments 
Resonance - HITA alignment preserves organizational 
memory 
Organizational inertia - delays in implementation
Adaptation
Paradox - tensions between interdependent elements
Exploratory innovation
Exploitative Innovation


limitations:		Few studies use non-linear frameworks
			Most studies assume linear relationships


Variables:		IT Affordance
			IT appropriation


Guidance:		Promote = positive hita or impede = negative HITA
				Either situation can be leveraged to produce innovation
And innovative solutions
			Managing tensions to promote innovations
			Finding and leveraging existing paradoxes to stimulate
innovation - converting tensions into synergies

Examples:		New Collaborations tools that don’t integrate well with 
Existing Organizational memory tools, reducing HITA
Counter-intuitive - when innovation increases despite increasing
organizational misalignment

Perspectives:	IT Affordance misalignment may prevent standardization 
or an effort toward homogeneity and uniformity - or it may be perceived in this manner - but it is exactly this misalignment that results in novel solutions as disparate structures attempt to integrate with one another.
			It’s the challenges created by dissonance, and the need to resolve 
that dissonance - the conflicts created by that dissonance - that results in innovation, and innovate solutions
Definitions:	Positive HITA is when an organization is operating synergistically
			Negative HITA is when an organization is operating with creative
 Dissonance, or, displays paradoxical characteristics
The quadratic relationship between innovation and HITA is that 
innovation is increases as synergies increase, but also as dissonance increases
			Paradox refers to conflict within an organization, or
misalignment within an organization, or dissonance within an organization - even though it may be paradoxical
That innovation can increase as dissonance increases, paradox is not used to describe this phenomenon, the term counter-intuitive is used in this circumstance
			Coalignment - in contrast to dissonance - a kind of synergy
			Affordance Theory - what information technology allows human
users to do - affordance can increase as an operator becomes more adept at using a particular artifact of information technology - affordance is also - it affordance also depends on the goals of the user. - a crm doesn’t do much for a person interested in programming - an IDE doesn’t do much for a person looking to close a deal.
			Types of IT Affordance - Collaborative Affordance - 
organizational Memory Affordance - process management affordance
			Affordance - what is allowed - what is enabled
			Organizational inertia - describes the difficulties an 
organization may have in changing course or changing direction - in HITA terms - HITA = Zero
			Orthogonal - do not influence one another, either in a positive 
way or a negative way

2.1 Why Microtribes Are Wrecking Company Growth Plans

Dynamics:		Market fragmentation - has been increasing in an increasingly granular way - allowed by changes in how people 
				connect with one another
			Examples of how incumbents have adapted - have to combine some functions - keep other functions separate - these 
				can be used to describe when organizations 
					VF Corporation
					Match Group
					Omnicom
					Publicis
			Technologies change the way people interact - which changes the sizes of market segments - which changes how 
				companies manage product lineups - which changes how organizations are segmented
			I can demonstrate the non-linear/quadratic/parabolic/u-shaped relationship by using illustrations from 
				Fragmented organizations - VF Corp. - Match - Meta - Berkshire Hathaway
				Integrated Organizations - Apple - Google
				Mixed Integrated Organizations - Amazon
				


3: Strategic Relevance Of Organizational Virtues Enabled By IT

Terminology:	COPs - communities of practice - a conceptual framework for
Organizations.
Concepts:		Improvisation as innovation - improvisation involves developing
				novel solutions to address novel situations - and should be 
				considered a form of innovation - and should be fostered
				or promoted by an organization to address urgent and
				unpredictable, and unanticipated challenges
			Organizational Wisdom - required to improvise successfully - has
				a positive effect on the ability to improvise
			Mediating Variables - Mediating Factors - IT affordance doesn’t 
				have a direct connection to innovation - it’s mediated 
				through virtues and capabilities that can foster or hinder 
				Innovation.
			IT Capabilities are distinct from IT affordances - capabilities refer 
				to what can be done - affordances, specifically the aspect of 
				how technology is appropriated for a purpose - how 
				technologies might be used - a GPU could be used for 
				enhancing a computer game - or processing a large 
				language model - or processing a blockchain or 
				cryptocurrency - a GPU is capable of performing 
				calculations, but what functions a GPU affords to the user 
				depends on how the user appropriates or uses the GPU or
				what application the user uses it for.

Virtues:		Courage
			Justice - distributive and corrective
			Wisdom
			Temperance - particularly relevant during periods of radical 
				organizational change - needed to reduce anxiety, panic, 
				And Despair that coincides with radical organizational 
				change - Organizational Temperance serves to prevent or 
				reduce chaos

Frameworks:	The framework for organizational virtues is an extension of the 
				business ethics
			Organizational IT affordances - collaborative, process 
				management, and memory - Which in turn enable
				Organizational Virtues - These organizational virtues 
				determine the success of organizational improvisation - 
				improvisation is either a form of innovation - or a kind of 
				process that occurs before innovation - or is a kind of 
				preliminary step to innovation.

Catalysts:		improvisation - turbulent circumstances - spontaneous situations - unprecedented 
				Circumstances - truncated time horizons
Innovation - enhanced by formalizing the process of improvisation - or establishing or 
	practicing improvisation - having a process in place specifically for developing 
	novel solutions to unprecedented situations


Limitations:		ninety percent of innovations fail
Research showing reduced significance of information technology on organizational 
Outcomes
Organizational Wisdom - highest correlative variable to improvisational success - may 
potentially be highest among more established incumbent organizations - and less 
so among more recently established organizations.
In Business Ethics research, the virtue based ethical framework occupies a niche area, even 
within the information systems discipline - business ethics, the majority of business 
ethics scholarship - focuses on morality (“deontology”) or optimization as an 
ethical framework (“utilitarianism”)
Research based on subjects or observees or participants based in the united states


3.1 Norfolk Southern Corporation. (224). Form 10-K Annual Report.

Conclusions:	The East Palestine, Ohio derailment, cost 1.1 billion is an Example of a lack of a certain organizational virtue, they
				had all the technology in place to determine safety issues and set up maintenance to avert the issues, but for 
				one reason or another, they didn’t take the actions necessary to prevent the disaster

3.2 The Boeing Company. (2024). Form 10-K Annual Report.

Conclusions:	Similar to the issues at Norfolk Southern Corporation







4: Information Technology And Organizational Innovation: 
Challenges:	Inconsistencies in literature
			Limitations on areas of study - Organizational courage - risk tolerance - risk aversion - and fit
			Limitations of agency in a corporate context
Concepts:		Fit -HITA, and how HITA influences organizational courage
			Gestalt - coherence of internal structures
			Stratification of Fit: proposes 3 levels of fit Level 1 - Level 2 - Level 3
			Actualization - application and implementation
			Innovation - 2 types - exploratory - exploitative - exploitative meaning commercializable - actually - it seems both 
				exploratory and exploitative are for commercial applications - exploratory refers to innovating new 
				products - exploitative refers to innovating existing products - exploratory innovation is radical - 
				Exploitative is Incremental. Exploratory innovation is more disruptive.
			Actualizing affordances - Requires experimentation, changes, tinkering - these processes can pose a perceived risk 
				that a less courageous organization may be averse to, and therefore will never benefit from affordances 
				that are never implemented or actualized.
			Moderation - one variable has an effect on another variable, but that intensity of that impact is affected by a
				third variable
			Mediation -  one variable has an effect on another variable, but this effect can only occur through an 
				intermediate variable, or intermediary, that transmits the effect from the first variable, to the second 
				Variable
			Profile deviation - expectations vs reality
			Matching - two variables
			Covariance
			Gestalt
			
			
Frameworks:	Agility -  the ability to adapt to changing circumstances
Terminology:	Organizational Courage - refers to the ability to take risks - 
			Fit - Alignment and harmony - FIT & HITA refer to the convergence of IT infrastructure and organizational
				objectives in a way that serves as a catalyst for innovation - fosters innovation
			Circumspect - risk averse - risk avoidance - wary or risk
			Transitive Effect - 
			Salience = prevalence -
			Parsimonious - used in this context to mean focused
			Spurious - dubious or contrived

Conflicts:		Exploratory innovation by a firm may create products that conflict with existing product lines the following are 
			a list of companies that innovated products that conflicted with existing products:
				Vanguard - passively managed index funds
				State Street - Exchange traded funds
				Xerox - GUI, Personal Computers
				Polaroid - Digital Cameras, digital photography, digital imaging
				Alphabet - Large Language Models
				Booking holdings - Vacation Rentals
				IBM - Personal Computers , Servers
				Altria - vape products
				Microsoft - Mobile Operating Systems, Mobile Devices
				Corteva - Bioengineered crops
				Blockbuster - video streaming services
				Palm, blackberry, motorola - touchscreen smartphones
				DR Horton, Lennar Greystone - Modular construction techniques
				Atari - console gaming - computer gaming - multiplayer gaming
Reflections:	Affordances must be actualized, having the best tools, having the best technology means nothing if it isn’t put
				into use, it’s useless if it isn’t used - and it’s useless if it isn’t used to produce anything, like to innovate new 
				products, or iterate and improve upon existing products. These new innovations have the potential to create 
				uncertainty and perceived risks to an organization, and an organization must have courage to overcome				 the fears of risk and uncertainty to actualize technology to innovate.
			What the data shows is that the rewards are there for organizations  willing to take risks, for organizations that
				have The organizational courage to take prudent and well calculated risks and address the uncertainties 
				that come with those, rewards, those innovations, however, in order for these rewards to materialize for an
				Organization, information Technology affordances must be actualized in combination with a strong 
				culture of organizational courage.
			There is a point in the article that shows that there is a strong relationship between exploratory and exploitative
				 innovation, that when one measurement measures high, that the other will also measure high. One thing we 
				discussed in class was that, a long series of incremental, exploitative innovations, can result in - or can add 
				up to something similarly to an exploratory, disruptive innovation
			


3.2: Disruptive Innovations With It

1: Disruptive Innovation: Conceptual Foundations And Research Opportunities 
Disruption:		The term disruption - Currently Overused - core concepts misunderstood - disruption usually occurs at the
				lower-end of the market. Incumbents produce over-developed products. New entrants develop inexpensive
				products.
					Fintech -	
					Rideshare -
					Vacation Rentals -
					Browser software - 
			The technology isn’t usually innovative, but the business model is what is disruptive
			Low-end encroachment - movement from the low-end of the market, upstream, to the higher end of the market is 
				Usually something incumbents tend not to pay attention to - and this results in an increased chance of 
				being disrupted
			Industry-Wide or Strategic Disruptions
				Green Revolution
				Automation, AI, robotics, drones
				Sensor Technologies, wireless sensor networks
				Additive Manufacturing techniques, 3d printing, digital production
Methods:		Used language analysis to screen 1078 research papers published between 1978 - 2016
			Diffusion patterns
			Ex-ante
			Ex-post
			Post-hoc conclusions
Dynamics:		incumbents, established organizations lose ground when innovations occur due to a focus on existing, 
				sophisticated customers
			It has been suggested that organizations develop units that guard against disruptions rather than focus on 
				customer needs
			Leadership structures that cause organizations to be disrupted, increase the risk of being disrupted, and have 
				difficulties adapting and reacting to disruptions
			Legislative barriers prevented or interfered with the adoption of e-readers in japan - copyrights and intellectual 
				property protections specifically



2: Agility In Responding To Disruptive Digital Innovation
Focus:		small and medium sized enterprises - firms

Terminology:	SME - small to medium sized enterprises
			DDI - disruptive digital innovation
			Rigidity & Agility - refers to or connects to the concept of organizational inertia and agility
			

Cases:			Kodak - failure to respond to digital photography
			Nokia - failure to respond to smartphones
			AirBNB - how will it adapt as the market for vacation rentals becomes increasingly competitive
			Uber Technologies - 
			Elixir Technologies - coding changes - programming disruptions - software delivery distribution disruptions - 
				moved from business reporting - to business intelligence software - then to providing this service through 
				the cloud or through a cloud based application. - Developed a system for dispatching taxis to taxi stands, 
				but this was disrupted by ride-hailing services, so the technology was modified to serve mass transit stations
				Elixir was in a somewhat unique position - since they were in a business reporting, business intelligence, 
				business analytics software business, they often had extensive external network relationships since they 
				had to work with a variety of businesses - through these networks, the leadership teams were often more 
				creative, and more open to new business ideas. Converted the transit system software to a smart-transit 
				software system. from off the shelf packages - to cloud based software as a service - from business reporting 
				software to business analytics software. Had to adapt to mobile devices - pdas - and later to smart phones - 
				to allow delivery of the software to mobile devices

Concepts:		Agility is the key factor in surviving disruptions caused by digital innovations - requires the ability to detect and 
				respond to the changes caused by the innovations
			Some innovations may require the combination of several different technologies, or may require the maturity of 
				some technologies to occur, prerequisite developments to take place.
			SME - do not require large amounts of slack resources - refers to emergency fund style resources - larger 
				organizations require more slack resources in a way that someone with higher monthly expenses may require 
				a larger emergency fund. SMEs tend to have owner/managers who tend to have a mindset or approach that is 
				different from someone who is an employee/manager
			External network relationships - people outside a firm who can assist an SME in various ways, support an SME in 
				various ways, provide external competencies, external insights, alternative viewpoints, identify 
				Opportunities
			SME - does experience greater resource constraints compared to larger organizations
			Organizational Ambidexterity - managing exploratory, and exploitative innovation at the same time.
			Exploratory vs Exploitative innovation - in elixer’s case - mentioned that 3 out of 10 exploitative pilot projects 
				work out, compared to 1 out of 10 for exploratory pilot projects
			Responding to changes - develop capabilities - preventing rigidities - sensing requires leadership to have strong 
				external networks boundary openness
			Sensing Capabilities - being able to detect changes in innovation that can disrupt a business.
			SME - has benefits as well as challenges, they don’t require extensive resource slack, or fall back resources, but 
				they also don’t have - this also is an issue because they may not have enough resources to reconfigure the 
				Business or to adapt in the necessary ways after a disruption.



3: The Disruptive Information Technology Innovation Model
Frameworks:	“disruptive information technology innovation model (DITIM)
				adoption timing
				disruptive innovation cycle
			Variables that Differ between early and late adopters
				(1) adoption rate of radical IT innovations, 
				(2) strong order effects on downstream innovations related to the amount of innovation, 
				(3) perceived radicalness of innovations and 
				(4) strong effects on downstream innovations related to the radicalness of innovation.
			DITIM explains innovation patterns over time and articulates their sequence across three types of IT innovations: 
				(1) bases 
				(2) processes 
				(3) services
			Radical Innovations
				learning barriers - high during early period of innovation cycle, 
							    lower later on due to larger knowledge base

Timelines:		1995–1999, an early period of rapid, broad and deep industry-wide innovation
			2000 -  onward, a period in which industry-wide innovation slowed, 
			became dramatically standardized and posed lower learning requirements 
			for new entrants relative to the earlier stage.

Conclusions:	Goals of 
			(1) demonstrating the importance of considering temporal factors in the study of disruptive innovation 
			(2) illustrating that innovation types matter when theorizing about IT-innovation creation and adoption
			service innovation: primary engine of process innovation during the entire disruptive IT-innovation cycle
				Service innovation drives process innovation
			base technologies: ‘mature’ and become more standardized and powerful, they have more significant effects.
			process innovations: take more time to mature and evolve
			Process innovations: Process innovations may also have early substitutive effects when the causal links between 
				the base technologies and their effects are poorly understood and are later replaced with complementary
				Effects.
Reflections:	There is an early and late innovation cycle
			And there are early and late adopters of innovations”
			
			


4: The Disruptive Nature Of Information Technology Innovations
“Context:		This article deals with or addressed how the internet impacted or had an impact in the United States and Finland. 
				It was written in 2003, it mentions how the distribution of information shifted away from mainframe 
				distribution to internet distribution
			Disruptive Innovation - structural features distinct from interactive processes
			disruptive architectural innovations - deviate radically from existing architectures - May be appropriations of 
			latent technologies or adaptations of latent technologies to new user needs

			Innovation Diffusion Trajectory”
	“In their simplest form, IT innovations involve only a technological component—changes in hardware and software that are new to an industry or adopters—but they are often augmented with complementary organizational innovations including new forms of cognition, meaning, work process, business process, or organizational structure.”
Implications:	correct timing in the diffusion of disruptive innovations
				Learning curve is often steep 
Expertise in multiple areas is extremely rare - dedicated specialists are often required.

Type I system development processes - services
Type II - administrative functions
Type III - core business processes

3.3: Innovating With Artificial Intelligence
 
1: Artificial Intelligence In Organizations 
2: AI Innovation Typology
		Different Current Users	
		used by credit card companies to detect fraud
		ai assistants like siri and alexa
		medical uses of AI to detect Illnesses
		
		Professionals need to determine if Artificial intelligence will enhance their professions, or serve to undermine and devalue their professions.
		
		Structured Data
			this type of data is schematically standardized and organized
				inventory figures  sales data  production levels  stock exchange data
		unstructured Data
				IoT // social media posts // blog posts // reviews // tweets
					IoT - the Internet of things - how objects are connected to the Internet
		
		processes
			pre-processes
				Natural Language Understanding
					converts spoken words into text
						statistical modeling and machine learning
				computer vision
			
			main processes
				problem solving
				reasoning
				Machine Learning
					lets AI systems enhance their performance  initially allowed
					artificial neural networks - consist of a sequence of layers where data is processed
						in one layer before being handed off to and processed by a deeper layer.
			
			outputs
				natural language generation
				image creation
				robotics
			Technological discontinuities
				when a new technology offers so much of an advantage that no increase in efficiencies, scale, or design to existing technologies can compete
					this relates back to
						exploratory and disruptive innovation
						and
						exploitative and incremental innovation
			
			autonomous vehicles
			
			competence enhancing
			
				do not change fundamentals, increase and serve as a tool to existing skills.
			
			
			
			
			competence destroying
			
				render existing skills obsolete
			
			Artificial generalized intelligence - strong AI - to simulate human thought
			
			Applied Artificial Intelligence - for tasks that are commercially viable
			Artificial super intelligence -
			
			Things to consider
				
				implementation - there is a need for interoperability between programs - this can be difficult if API's are
				not compatible with one another.
				
				Data Quality - the quality of the data used to train AI models could be skewed, Inaccurate, biased, not representative - or poorly defined.
							 - low quality inputs result in low quality outputs by the AI models.
							
				Privacy Measures - need to be in place to product individuals, large amounts of data are required to train AI models.



3: Artificial Intelligence (AI): Multidisciplinary Perspectives 

						Two Types or goals
				to perform specific tasks
				to think like a human
				
			deep neural networks to improve AI, may not improve these tools.
			realistic limits of AI, the - it's to serve as a tool, and move up the value chain - while using AI -
			the concept of AI replacing humans is a dated concept.
			
			Application domains
			The AI literature has identified several separate domains in which the technology can be applied:
			
			Digital Imaging,
			Education,
				improve teacher effectiveness
					tutoring systems
					library users
					library processes
					intelligent narrative technologies
					staffing requirements
				student engagement
					game-based learning environments
			Government,
			Healthcare,
				medical informatics
				loopthink - limitation of medical AI-loopthink
					type of implicit bias
					which does not  perform correct reappraisal of information or revision
					
					Weak loopthink refers to the intrinsic inability of computer
						intelligence to redirect executive data flow because of its fixed internal
						hard writing, un-editable sectors of its operating system, or unalterable
						lines of its programme code.
					Strong loopthink refers to AI suppression
						due to internalisation of the ethical framework.
					
				This is interesting - it seems to refer when the AI tool which should train itself in a way that improves itself
			Manufacturing,
			Robotics and
			Supply Chain.
			
			Data Visualizations
			
			Data Challenges
				Disagreements about data standards creates challenges
					a cardiac imaging - there were - there was a need to standardize data across institutions
				issues about transparency and reliability
				interpretations of imagery proved to be an obstacle
				the dimensionality obstacle
			
			Social Challenges
				Unrealistic expectations
				not
				fear of job losses
				fear of loss of participation in society
				
			Human cognitive flexibility
				the ability to interpret unstructured data
				
				
			SME - Society of Manufacturing Engineers
			Small and midsize enterprises (SMEs) 
				are businesses that have revenues, assets, or a number of employees below a certain
				threshold. Each country has its own definition of what constitutes a small and midsize enterprise.
					- investopedia (2024)
					
			Critically, in subsets of these components, the data science may be handled independently,
			for example by
			product or cloud suppliers, with different
			viewpoints. So the following question arises: how can the inferences
			delivered by different AI components be
			
			integrated coherently when they may
			be based on
				different data, and subject to
				different ecosystem conventions
								(and the associated
				quality differences) (Walton, 2018a; Walton, 2018b)?
				
			This question can be retitled as the discrimination problem
			
		one of the earliest uses of AI was
			the chess game computer
				
		different levels of automation are appropriate for different types of tasks
			manual
			autonomous
			
				how much is given to a human, how much and what kind of input a human user gives to the machine
				
		situational awareness
			there is an expectation that there will be increasing issues with situational
			awareness because humans don't have the same level of alertness or cognizance of events
			that they themselves do not create - whether that change is made by an AI, or another human,
			so as more things become automated, and more changes are made - or more actions are made by machines
			situational awareness is expected to decrease.		
			
		Logistics	
			
			Amazon
			
			Uber
			
		Value of AI should be highest when it reaches maturity - unlikely to be commoditized - meaning standardized product or indistinguishable from other AI products.
		
		consumer preferences
				can make or assist in providing customers with more
				more validated purchasing decisions. frequency of marketing messages
				automated bidding on marketing Artifacts
				advertising - machines generate content - consumers feel like they are being targeted
				people are afraid of AI that they don't really have a full understanding of
				
		I can't believe how long this article is. it's taking forever to get through.
		
		Marketing Implications
			
				Assists in designing better marketing material
				allows advertisers to better understand the data
				sales teams to meet their sales targets and goals
			
		AI resulted in reduced production rate at AirBus
		
				"For instance, Ransbotham, Kiron, Gerbert,
				and Reeves (2017) highlights that AI reduced the production rate in Air
				Bus."
			
				"A production rate is a quantity of production accomplished over a specific period of time and
				realistic production rates are the key in determining reasonable contract times for construction projects."
				
				"In manufacturing, production rate is typically measured as the quantity of goods manufactured per hour, day, week, month, or any other relevant time frame."
				
				"For example, let's say that workers at a manufacturing plant can produce 5,000 units per week using 50 hours of labor. As a result,
				the production rate per hour would be 100 units (5,000 / 50 hours) minus any defective units. The 100 unit per hour
				production rate could be used as a baseline number for comparative purposes. "
				
				"In a wide range of areas AI can be deployed (please see for a recent
				review, Duan et al., 2019). For instance, Ransbotham, Kiron, Gerbert,
				and Reeves (2017) highlights that AI reduced the production rate in Air"
					
					"Ransbotham, S., Kiron, D., Gerbert, P., & Reeves, M. (2017). Reshaping business with
					artificial intelligence: Closing the gap between ambition and action. MIT Sloan
					Management Review, 59(1)."
					"Gerbert, P., Reeves, M., Ransbotham, S., Kiron, D., & Spira, M. (2018). Global
					competition with AI in business: How China differs. MIT Sloan Management Review
					(July)." 					
					
					
		Legal and Regulatory Implications
		
				how to determine liability and accountability issues.
				
				fake news and misleading information
				
				Human Rights implications
					the right not to be measured
					not to participate or be used to train the AI models in question
					
				Government Adoption of AI tools and applications
					efficiencies
					public hospitals using analytics tools to determine outbreaks
					algorithmic opacity - when it's not known, or disclosed how a system works.
					public opinion formation through tools like social media
						influences public policy directions
					
				Smart Cities and development of
					better city design
				
		Social Science Implications
		
				Digital haves and have-nots
				
				disrupts can create new social paradigms
					exposes people lower on the social rung to exploitation
					
				Digital inequity, and digital divide
				
				profiling and law enforcement issues. biases may be reinforced
				
				Keeping Humans at the center of the design
				
				Ethical implications of artificual Intelligence have
					not been fully contemplated and established
				
		I really can't believe how long this article is. I've been listening to this for I even don't  how many
		hours. Lord.
		
		Reinforcement Learning
				Referenced during GPT 2 development and Meta chat-bot experiments
				can have unpredictable results
				
		Deep Max Scores
			
				Framework
				
		Blockchain and Artificial Intelligence
		
		- Reading Completed on 06:47 AM on 03/06/2024
		
			I want to say that the reading took a full 7 hours.







3.1 Leveraging large language models for predictive chemistry


Terminology:	Machine Learning
			Large Language Model
			LLM Training
			In context learning - this refers to how the LLM learns about a subject during the course 
                                       		of a chat session, rather than fine-tuning or training the model directly.		
			Inverse design - this refers to creating molecular structures - or chemicals - polymers or 
alloys - that react in a certain way, or have a specific set of properties - I think that it 
is called inverse design because, rather than creating a chemical, and describing its 
properties, - the desired properties are described, and then the molecule is designed
			Generative Models
			MLM - Machine Learning Model
			LLM - Large Language Model
			First-principles theory
                          Isomers - This is chemistry related
Polymers- This is chemistry related
Monomers - This is chemistry related
		Gaussian process regression - GPR
		Generative pretrained transformer - gpt

Applications:	Large Language Models and machine learning to chemistry, and physical sciences
			Computing, programming, AI, ML, LLM on Physical sciences, chemistry, and predictive
				Simulations
			Generating a specific type of dispersant - which I think is a kind of soap - generating a 
dispersant with a specific set of characteristics

Limitations:		The LLM was able to generate molecules using inverse design, or, it was able to 
Hypothesize the existence of chemicals with a desired set of characteristics,
But there were instances where the LLM generated invalid chemical structures
Even if an LLM is able to generate a new chemical, that chemical still has to be synthesized
	And there are instances where it’s not really possible or practical to synthesize the
	Chemical generated by the LLM
It can be difficult to train an LLM accurately, or train it well for accuracy because very 
large dataset are required, and there are limitations on how many chemicals can be 
tested and added to a given data set to train an LLM on

Variations:		Using a general LLM AI tool (GPT 3) trained on chemistry documents Rather than a 
chemistry specific AI tool, or existing chemistry simulation tools conventional machine learning models designed for chemistry
Existing machine learning models represent chemicals or molecular structures 
	mathematically, or symbolically, or as a kind of code or program that reacts  	
a certain way, rather than verbally. Existing machine learning models simulate 
molecular structures in an abstract way, rather than verbally, the approach used in 
this paper, by these researchers, describes chemicals verbally
The GPT 3 LLM was compared with a gaussian process regression mlm

Reflections:	this was a really interesting article - one of the things that I’m wondering is: if copyright 
protection isn’t or cannot be granted to ai generated text or ai generated artwork, will patents also not be granted to ai generated chemicals? Or AI generated medicines or Pharmaceuticals? Or ai generated chemical compounds.
AI is already used to create novel chemical structures, however, the prevailing AI tools 
used for the purpose of generating novel chemical structures are Machine learning 
models, rather than large language models, this research paper approaches 
generating novel chemical structures using LLMs rather than MLMs


Intersections:	This paper illustrates the concept of IT Affordances - LLMs have certain capabilities, and 
how LLMs are appropriated, in this case, an LLM is appropriated for the purpose of creating novel chemical compounds - this article illustrates a novel appropriation of an existing tool.



	
	
4: Strategic Use Of AI
	Analytical tools for business strategy
		used a tool to review customer reviews on Yelp and similar websites
		and drafted a business strategy or business proposals











References

Mamonov, S., & Peterson, R. (2021). The role of IT in organizational innovation – A systematic literature review. Journal of Strategic Information Systems, 30, 101696. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsis.2021.101696

Chatterjee, S., Moody, G. D., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2021). The nonlinear influence of harmonious information technology affordance on organisational innovation. Information Systems Journal, 31(3), 294–322. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12311

Chatterjee, S., Moody, G., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2015). Strategic relevance of organizational virtues enabled by information technology in organizational innovation. Journal of Management Information Systems, 32(3), 158–196. https://doi.org/10.1080/07421222.2015.1099180

Chatterjee, S., Moody, G., Lowry, P. B., Chakraborty, S., & Hardin, A. (2020). Information technology and organizational innovation: Harmonious information technology affordance and courage-based actualization. Journal of Strategic Information Systems, 29, 101596. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsis.2020.101596

Hopp, C., Antons, D., Kaminski, J., & Salge, T. O. (2018). Disruptive Innovation: Conceptual Foundations, Empirical Evidence, and Research Opportunities in the Digital Age. Journal of Product Innovation Management, 35(3), 446–457. https://doi.org/10.1111/jpim.12448

Chan, C. M. L., Teoh, S. Y., Yeow, A., & Pan, G. (2018). Agility in responding to disruptive digital innovation: Case study of an SME. Information Systems Journal, 29(2), 436–455. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12215

Carlo, J. L., Gaskin, J., Lyytinen, K., & Rose, G. M. (2014). Early vs. late adoption of radical information technology innovations across software development organizations: an extension of the disruptive information technology innovation model. Information Systems Journal, 24(6), 537–569. https://doi.org/10.1111/isj.12039

Lyytinen, K., & Rose, G. M. (2003). The disruptive nature of information technology innovations: The case of internet computing in systems development organizations. MIS Quarterly, 27(4), 557-595. https://doi.org/10.2307/30036549


Benbya, H., Pachidi, S., & Jarvenpaa, S. (2021). Special Issue Editorial: Artificial Intelligence in Organizations: Implications for Information Systems Research. Journal of the Association for Information Systems, 22(2), 281-303. https://doi.org/10.17705/1jais.00662


Paschen, U., Pitt, C., & Kietzmann, J. (2020). Artificial intelligence: Building blocks and an innovation typology. Business Horizons, 63, 147-155. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bushor.2019.10.004


Dwivedi, Y. K., Hughes, L., Ismagilova, E., Aarts, G., Coombs, C., Crick, T., ... Williams, M. D. (2021). Artificial Intelligence (AI): Multidisciplinary perspectives on emerging challenges, opportunities, and agenda for research, practice and policy. International Journal of Information Management, 57, 101994. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2019.08.002


Borges, A. F. S., Laurindo, F. J. B., Spínola, M. M., Gonçalves, R. F., & Mattos, C. A. (2021). The strategic use of artificial intelligence in the digital era: Systematic literature review and future research directions. International Journal of Information Management, 57, 102225. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2020.102225

Anderson, C., & Robey, D. (2017). Affordance potency: Explaining the actualization of technology affordances. Information and Organization, 27(2), 100-115. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infoandorg.2017.03.002
Jablonka, K. M., Schwaller, P., Ortega-Guerrero, A., & Smit, B. (2024). Leveraging large language models for predictive chemistry. Nature Machine Intelligence. https://doi.org/10.1038/s42256-023-00788-1



Patnaik, D. (2024, February 11). Why Microtribes Are Wrecking Company Growth Plans. Forbes. https://www.forbes.com/sites/devpatnaik/2024/02/11/why-microtribes-are-wrecking-company-growth-plans/?sh=3307ddba509c



Norfolk Southern Corporation. (2024). Form 10-K Annual Report. U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. https://www.sec.gov/ixviewer/ix.html?doc=/Archives/edgar/ data/702165/000070216524000005/nsc-20231231.htm



The Boeing Company. (2024). Form 10-K Annual Report. U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. https://www.sec.gov/ixviewer/ix.html?doc=/Archives/edgar/data/12927/000001292724000010/ba-20231231.htm
























Annotations

Testing the presentation - tested inserting videos - creating charts - creating diagrams - 

Created slides 21 - 24 - subsequently deleted.


Updated Module paper 3, just the references page

I came across an interesting scholarly article that I want to read, and cite in this paper
So i am skipping to 3.3 of the module 3 paper



Article Read Aloud Set up Area

– this was basically useless, you can’t print a pdf that has read aloud enabled, a document has to be downloaded, not printed – as a pdf in order for it to be read aloud enabled

...

Module 1 													Vicky
Module 2													Kelly
Module 3 													Kenneth
Module 4 													Group Paper
4.1. The Landscape of Emerging Technologies					Vicky
4.1.1 Blockchain Research in Information Systems			Vicky
4.1.2 Editorial Emergent Tech and Organizing				Vicky
4.1.3 the Fintech Revolution:								Vicky
4.1.4 Quantum Computing and Information Systems				Vicky


4.2. The Changing Nature of Work							Kelly
4.2.1 Editorial Future of Work Organizations Society		Kelly
4.2.2 Human Factors in AI and Future of Work				Kelly
4.2.3 Mental Health and Information Technology				Kelly
4.2.4 Waging war from remote cubicles						Kelly

4.3 Digitalization: Advances and Challenges 				Kenneth			Group Presentation
4.3.1 Digital Innovation Review 							Kenneth			Vicky
4.3.2 Unpacking The Difference 								Kenneth			Kelly
4.3.3 Digital Opportunities For Incumbents 					Kenneth			Kenneth
4.3.4 Digitalization Ethical Challenge 						Kenneth			Kenneth

...

Integrative Conceptual Summary

The Relation Between It And Organizational Innovation

In the article The Nonlinear Influence Of Harmonious Information Technology (Chatterjee et al., 2021) the author puts forward the idea that the relationship between HITA and Innovation is U-shaped, meaning that increased innovation is a result of increased HITA, but increased innovation can also be a result of decreased HITA. It’s intuitive enough that increased innovation results from increased HITA, everyone works well when everything works well, but the counterintuitive aspect of Chatterjee’s hypothesis is that increased innovation can also result when HITA is decreased, out of the chaos: innovation. In chaotic and creatively dissonant environments, a need arises to develop mechanisms that tie different operational units together. A general example of this would be something like the creation of the Euro to deal with the myriad currencies that existed in the EU trade bloc before the invention of the Euro, on the other hand, there isn’t enough dissonance between North American countries to drive or warrant such a currency innovation for the USMCA trade bloc.

In The Strategic Relevance Of Organizational Virtues Enabled By IT (Chatterjee et al., 2015) the author puts forward a framework for business ethics based on virtues that contrasts with conventional business ethics frameworks based on morality as well as business ethics frameworks based on optimization. Courage, justice, wisdom, and temperance are the virtues that Chatterjee bases the virtue based business ethics framework upon. Chatterjee extends upon this framework in two directions: the first is to determine how specific elements of HITA drive specific organizational virtues, the second is to determine how these organizational virtues drive innovation. Chatterjee goes on to posit that improvised solutions precede innovation, that innovations are a result of necessity, as well as a need for a temporary solution to that unexpected necessity. Chatterjee found that high levels of Organization Wisdom guide the improvisation and innovation process with the greatest level of success and that the HITA elements of collaboration and memory enable that virtue with the greatest levels of economy. An interesting example of this would be the East Palestine, Ohio train derailment incident involving Norfolk Southern, as well as other high-profile safety issues involving the Boeing Max 737, various news reports mentioned that they had systems in place to detect and document safety issues and quality issues, but would either ignore or disregard those issues. Both of these examples will continue to play out, but either engineering innovations will reduce the costs of resolving safety issues, or legislative innovations will occur that increase the costs of unsafely operating these businesses.

The Role Of IT In Organizational Innovation (Mamonov & Peterson 2021)

...

This is already feeling like it's too long. I'm thinking that I'll just continue writing, and 
cut whatever I need to later.

...

I'm frustrated right now. Not a single thing is going right for me right now.
and yet, this is how it's always been. it is as if the universe itself was 
designed to frustrated me.

...

Bensinger, G. (2024, March 8). Google's newest office has AI designers toiling in a Wi-Fi desert. Reuters. https://www.reuters.com/technology/googles-newest-office-has-ai-designers-toiling-wi-fi-desert-2024-03-08/

Gurman, M. (2024, February 27). Apple to wind down electric car effort after decadelong odyssey. Bloomberg. https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2024-02-27/apple-to-wind-down-electric-car-effort-after-decadelong-odyssey

In the article The Nonlinear Influence Of Harmonious Information Technology (Chatterjee et al., 2021) the author puts forward the idea that the relationship between HITA and Innovation is U-shaped, meaning that increased innovation is a result of increased HITA, but increased innovation can also be a result of decreased HITA. It’s intuitive enough that increased innovation results from increased HITA, everyone works well when everything works well, but the counterintuitive aspect of Chatterjee’s hypothesis is that increased innovation can also result when HITA is decreased, out of the chaos: innovation. In chaotic and creatively dissonant environments, a need arises to develop mechanisms that tie different operational units together. A general example of this would be something like the creation of the Euro to deal with the myriad currencies that existed in the EU trade bloc before the invention of the Euro, on the other hand, there isn’t enough dissonance between North American countries to drive or warrant such a currency innovation for the USMCA trade bloc.

In The Strategic Relevance Of Organizational Virtues Enabled By IT (Chatterjee et al., 2015) the author puts forward a framework for business ethics based on virtues that contrasts with conventional business ethics frameworks based on morality as well as business ethics frameworks based on optimization. Courage, justice, wisdom, and temperance are the virtues that Chatterjee bases the virtue based business ethics framework upon. Chatterjee extends upon this framework in two directions: the first is to determine how specific elements of HITA drive specific organizational virtues, the second is to determine how these organizational virtues drive innovation. Chatterjee goes on to posit that improvised solutions precede innovation, that innovations are a result of necessity, as well as a need for a temporary solution to that unexpected necessity. Chatterjee found that high levels of Organization Wisdom guide the improvisation and innovation process with the greatest level of success and that the HITA elements of collaboration and memory enable that virtue with the greatest levels of economy. An interesting example of this would be the East Palestine, Ohio train derailment incident involving Norfolk Southern, as well as other high-profile safety issues involving the Boeing Max 737, various news reports mentioned that they had systems in place to detect and document safety issues and quality issues, but would either ignore or disregard those issues. Both of these examples will continue to play out, but either engineering innovations will reduce the costs of resolving safety issues, or legislative and judicial innovations will occur that increase the costs of unsafely operating these businesses.

In The Role Of IT In Organizational Innovation (Mamonov & Peterson 2021) the authors outline a number of different metrics used to measure information technology, and a number of different metrics for measuring innovation. Information technology can be measured with metrics like computing capacity, digital storage capacity, server capacity, data transfer rates, latency. Innovation is often measured by the number of patents filed, or the number of research papers published. This is important because information technology and innovation can seem amorphous and conceptual, but by creating metrics for measuring information technology and measuring innovation, these concepts become concrete and measuring impact and returns on IT investments can be determined. An article was recently published about the Wi-Fi connectivity issues at the Alphabet, Inc. campus where the Gemini AI project is being worked on (Bensinger 2024), it would be interesting to see how this plays out, and if something as simple as Wi-Fi connectivity can result in Google pulling out of the AI race. There have been a number of different instances where companies have pulled back from one venture or another, Apple recently canceled it’s autonomous electric vehicle project (Gurman 2024), similar examples include Google pulling out of social media, Amazon canceling it’s smartphone, Microsoft canceling it’s music player, and it would be interesting if these project cancellations, all of which would have been wonderful innovations, all originally started with simple IT problems like Wi-Fi connectivity issues.

...

In the article The Nonlinear Influence Of Harmonious Information Technology (Chatterjee et al., 2021) the author puts forward the idea that the relationship between HITA and Innovation is U-shaped, meaning that increased innovation is a result of increased HITA, but increased innovation can also be a result of decreased HITA. It’s intuitive enough that increased innovation results from increased HITA, everyone works well when everything works well, but the counterintuitive aspect of Chatterjee’s hypothesis is that increased innovation can also result when HITA is decreased, out of the chaos: innovation. In chaotic and creatively dissonant environments, a need arises to develop mechanisms that tie different operational units together. A general example of this would be something like the creation of the Euro to deal with the myriad currencies that existed in the EU trade bloc before the invention of the Euro, on the other hand, there isn’t enough dissonance between North American countries to drive or warrant such a currency innovation for the USMCA trade bloc.

In The Strategic Relevance Of Organizational Virtues Enabled By IT (Chatterjee et al., 2015) the author puts forward a framework for business ethics based on virtues that contrasts with conventional business ethics frameworks based on morality as well as business ethics frameworks based on optimization. Courage, justice, wisdom, and temperance are the virtues that Chatterjee bases the virtue based business ethics framework upon. Chatterjee extends upon this framework in two directions: the first is to determine how specific elements of HITA drive specific organizational virtues, the second is to determine how these organizational virtues drive innovation. Chatterjee goes on to posit that improvised solutions precede innovation, that innovations are a result of necessity, as well as a need for a temporary solution to that unexpected necessity. Chatterjee found that high levels of Organization Wisdom guide the improvisation and innovation process with the greatest level of success and that the HITA elements of collaboration and memory enable that virtue with the greatest levels of economy. An interesting example of this would be the East Palestine, Ohio train derailment incident involving Norfolk Southern, as well as other high-profile safety issues involving the Boeing Max 737, various news reports mentioned that they had systems in place to detect and document safety issues and quality issues, but would either ignore or disregard those issues. Both of these examples will continue to play out, but either engineering innovations will reduce the costs of resolving safety issues, or legislative and judicial innovations will occur that increase the costs of unsafely operating these businesses.

In The Role Of IT In Organizational Innovation (Mamonov & Peterson 2021) the authors outline a number of different metrics used to measure information technology, and a number of different metrics for measuring innovation. Information technology can be measured with metrics like computing capacity, digital storage capacity, server capacity, data transfer rates, latency. Innovation is often measured by the number of patents filed, or the number of research papers published. This is important because information technology and innovation can seem amorphous and conceptual, but by creating metrics for measuring information technology and measuring innovation, these concepts become concrete and measuring impact and returns on IT investments can be determined. An article was recently published about the Wi-Fi connectivity issues at the Alphabet, Inc. campus where the Gemini AI project is being worked on (Bensinger 2024), it would be interesting to see how this plays out, and if something as simple as Wi-Fi connectivity can result in Google pulling out of the AI race. There have been a number of different instances where companies have pulled back from one venture or another, Apple recently canceled it’s autonomous electric vehicle project (Gurman 2024), similar examples include Google pulling out of social media, Amazon canceling it’s smartphone, Microsoft canceling it’s music player, IBM pulling out of the personal computer business, and it would be interesting if these project cancellations, all of which would have been wonderful innovations, all originally started with simple IT problems like Wi-Fi connectivity issues.

The article Information Technology and organizational innovation: Harmonious information technology affordance and courage-based actualization (Chatterjee et al., 2019) goes over how the capabilities offered by an information technology tool can be affected by attitudes toward using the technology: high levels of organizational courage on one end of the spectrum, and high levels of risk aversion on the other.

...

life is always kicking my ass. never. ceases. to be kicking my ass.

...


// everything always takes twice as long as I anticipate it will.
//
//
//
// // for (double value : pointScaleTimesCreditHoursArray) {
// // sumPointScaleTimesCreditHours += value;
//
// // for (double value : packageShippingChargeArray) {
// // packageShippingChargeArray += value;
//
// // double preliminaryCost = 0.00;
// // for (double value : packageShippingChargeArray) {
// // preliminaryCost += value; //
// // }
// // i eliminated preliminaryCost and replaced it with theGrandTotal
//
// // double thePreliminaryGrandTotal = shipment.getThePreliminaryGrandTotal();
// // private double thePreliminaryGrandTotal
// // System.out.println(reset+"The preliminary cost of shipping your "+
// packageShippingChargeArray.size() + " package(s) amounts to: "+ green+
// formatDoubleDollars.format(thePreliminaryGrandTotal) +" USD"+reset); //
// getTheGrandTotal()// v// "British Euro Dollars");
// // START - turned out to be a huge waste of time
// // shipment.setThePreliminaryGrandTotal(thePreliminaryGrandTotal);
// // String tFsIn = shipment.getTheFrequentShipperIdentificationNumber();
// // double frequentShipperDiscount = shipment.THE_FREQUENT_SHIPPER_DISCOUNT;
// // double theBulkDiscountAmount = shipment.THE_BULK_PACKAGE_DISCOUNT;
// /*
// if (Integer.parseInt(tFsIn) !=0 &&
// (thePreliminaryGrandTotal-(thePreliminaryGrandTotal *
// frequentShipperDiscount)) <= 300) {
//
// System.out.println(reset+"The preliminary cost of shipping your "+
// packageShippingChargeArray.size() + " package(s) amounts to: "+ green+
// formatDoubleDollars.format(thePreliminaryGrandTotal) +" USD"+reset);
// System.out.println(reset+"You will be receiving a frequent shipper discount
// in the amount of: "+ green+
// formatDoubleDollars.format((frequentShipperDiscount *
// thePreliminaryGrandTotal)) +" USD"+reset);
// System.out.println(reset+" "+reset);
// double theFinalGrandTotalAggregateShipmentExpenses =
// shipment.getTheGrandTotal();
// System.out.println(reset+"The total final cost of shipping your "+
// packageShippingChargeArray.size() + " package(s) amounts to a Grand Total of:
// "+ green+
// formatDoubleDollars.format(theFinalGrandTotalAggregateShipmentExpenses) +"
// USD"+reset);
// System.out.println(reset+" "+reset);
//
// } else if (Integer.parseInt(tFsIn) !=0 &&
// (thePreliminaryGrandTotal-(thePreliminaryGrandTotal *
// frequentShipperDiscount)) >= 300) {
// System.out.println(reset+"The preliminary cost of shipping your "+
// packageShippingChargeArray.size() + " package(s) amounts to: "+ green+
// formatDoubleDollars.format(thePreliminaryGrandTotal) +" USD"+reset);
// System.out.println(reset+"You will be receiving a frequent shipper discount
// in the amount of: "+ green+
// formatDoubleDollars.format((frequentShipperDiscount *
// thePreliminaryGrandTotal)) +" USD"+reset);
// System.out.println(reset+"You will also be receiving a frequent shipper bulk
// shipment discount in the amount of: "+ green+ (theBulkDiscountAmount) +"
// USD"+reset);
// System.out.println(reset+" "+reset);
// double theFinalGrandTotalAggregateShipmentExpenses =
// shipment.getTheGrandTotal();
// System.out.println(reset+"The total final cost of shipping your "+
// packageShippingChargeArray.size() + " package(s) amounts to a Grand Total of:
// "+ green+
// formatDoubleDollars.format(theFinalGrandTotalAggregateShipmentExpenses) +"
// USD"+reset);
// System.out.println(reset+" "+reset);
//
// } else {
// System.out.println(reset+" "+reset);
// double theFinalGrandTotalAggregateShipmentExpenses =
// shipment.getTheGrandTotal();
// System.out.println(reset+"The total final cost of shipping your "+
// packageShippingChargeArray.size() + " package(s) amounts to a Grand Total of:
// "+ green+
// formatDoubleDollars.format(theFinalGrandTotalAggregateShipmentExpenses) +"
// USD"+reset);
// System.out.println(reset+" "+reset);
// }
// */
// // END - turned out to be a huge waste of time
// // START - Let's see if this works
// // I found it this thing was annoying the hell out of me. //
// System.out.print(shipment.getTheGrandTotal());

// System.out.println(reset+(thePreliminaryGrandTotal-(thePreliminaryGrandTotal
// * frequentShipperDiscount))+reset); // for testing

// Integer.parseInt(tFsIn) !=0 && // } else if (Integer.parseInt(tFsIn) !=0 &&
// (thePreliminaryGrandTotal-(thePreliminaryGrandTotal *
// frequentShipperDiscount)) >= 300) {

// THE_FREQUENT_SHIPPER_DISCOUNT * thePreliminaryGrandTotal
// [0mThe preliminary cost of shipping your 1 package(s) amounts to:
// [32m[1m3.12 USD
// this pushes the preliminary cost of the transaction into the Shipment.java
// but this is actually wrong, so i actually have to do this in the Shipment
// class.
// it's a simple move, but i'm already tired of this.

// British Eurodollars // this is actually supposed to be extremely funny!
// because, at first is seems wrong, the British don't use euro(s), or dollars,
// but British Eurodollars are real, like, they're US dollars held in bank in
// London, or something.
// but yeah, that's supposed to be really funny.

// this alone took forever. the preliminary cost.
// this is taking forever. not only. am not going to get anything higher than a
// C, - what a nightmare.

// I really just want to put the discounts here, but they have to go. inside the
// shipment class. - this is a nightmare -

//
//

// I think that this is where I would put it.
// packageWidth = parcelPackage.getPackageWidth();

// System.out.println(packageShippingChargeArray); // ArrayList<Double>
// packageShippingChargeArray = new ArrayList<Double>();

// I'm starting to understand what object oriented design is
//
// it's like this - the demo class is like an HTML page, and the model class is
// like the JavaScript file.
// when I was starting this assignment, I started with the demo class, because
// like an HTML page, it's
// something I can see. and it's something I can interact with.

// I'm trying to think. I think that the package class is done, but I need
// something to happen once this while loop ends. or.
// I think that it just goes after the end of the while loop, so once a person
// enters N, then the next part of the program starts.
// this is almost done.
// System.out.println(packageShippingChargeArray);
// /*
//
//
// System.out.print("Please enter your frequent shipper identification number:"
// + green);
// packageWeight = Math.ceil(parcelPackage.keyboard.nextDouble()); // Math.ceil(
// parcelPackage.setPackageWeight(packageWeight);
//
//

//
// "However, each package should not exceed 120 pounds (actual weight) and 100
// outside linear inches (length plus width plus height)."  - Han-fen Hu, Ph.D
//
// "Overweight or over-sized packages are not accepted."  - Han-fen Hu, Ph.D
//
// "If the user enters a zero or a negative number, the program should show an
// error message and request input again until a positive number is entered."  - Han-fen Hu, Ph.D
//
//
//
// "For the actual weight, any fraction of the measurement should be increased to
// the nearest whole number (for example, 20.1 will be considered 21)."  - Han-fen Hu, Ph.D
//
// "For each package that can be shipped, the dimensional weight should be
// calculated. Dimensional weight reflects the amount of space a package
// occupies; dimensional weight is calculated by the following steps: (1)
// Determine the package dimensions in inches. For each dimension, any fraction
// of the measurement should be increased to the nearest whole number (for
// example, 1.3 will be considered 2). (2) Multiply the package length by the
// width by the height. The result is the cubic size in inches. (3) Divide the
// cubic size in inches by 166 to determine dimensional weight in pounds. (4)
// Increase any fraction to the next whole pound."  - Han-fen Hu, Ph.D
//
// "The shipping cost of each package is calculated by comparing the actual
// weight to the dimensional weight. The greater of the two is the billable
// weight and should be used to calculate the rate. The final cost of the
// shipment is calculated by multiplying the price per pound ($3.12) by the
// billable weight."  - Han-fen Hu, Ph.D
//
// "For each accepted package, the program should show the actual weight,
// calculated dimensional weight, and the shipping cost for the package."  - Han-fen Hu, Ph.D
//
// After all the packages are entered, the program will prompt the users to
// enter if they have “frequent-shipper” numbers; if so, a 5% discount will be
// applied to the shipping cost. If the total amount after the frequent-shipper
// discount is greater than $300, an additional “bulk package” discount of $20
// off would be applied. The program shows the total number of packages to ship,
// subtotal before discount, frequent-shipper discount if applied, bulk package
// discount if applied, and the grand total. -  - "Han-fen Hu, Ph.D
//
// "Please use the object-oriented approach to design the program. Specifically,
// a Package class and a Shipment class should be designed and implemented. The
// Package class represents the data and behavior for each individual package.
// The Shipment class represents the entire transaction made by a user."  - Han-fen Hu, Ph.D
//
//
//
// */
//
//
// /*
// [0m[31mGreetings: [0m Utilize this terminal to determine the cost to ship
// your parcel.
// Please enter the[31m weight[0m and the [31mdimensions [0mof your parcel:
//
// [0m Data for Parcel # 1
//
// Please enter the[31m weight [0mof your parcel: [32m50
// [0mPlease enter the[31m length [0mof your parcel: [32m50
// [0mPlease enter the[31m width [0m of your parcel: [32m50
// [0mPlease enter the[31m height [0mof your parcel: [32m50
//
// [0mThe parcel has an actual weight of: PLACEHOLDER
// [0mThe parcel has a dimensional weight of: PLACEHOLDER
// [0mThe parcel has the following dimensions: PLACEHOLDER
// [0mThe parcel has a shipping cost of: PLACEHOLDER
//
// [0mWill you be shipping any additional parcels? (Y/N): [32my
//
// [0m Data for Parcel # 2
//
// Please enter the[31m weight [0mof your parcel: [32m50
// [0mPlease enter the[31m length [0mof your parcel: [32m50
// [0mPlease enter the[31m width [0m of your parcel: [32m50
// [0mPlease enter the[31m height [0mof your parcel: [32m50
//
// [0mThe parcel has an actual weight of: PLACEHOLDER
// [0mThe parcel has a dimensional weight of: PLACEHOLDER
// [0mThe parcel has the following dimensions: PLACEHOLDER
// [0mThe parcel has a shipping cost of: PLACEHOLDER
//
// [0mWill you be shipping any additional parcels? (Y/N): [32my
//
// [0m Data for Parcel # 3
//
// Please enter the[31m weight [0mof your parcel: [32m50
// [0mPlease enter the[31m length [0mof your parcel: [32m50
// [0mPlease enter the[31m width [0m of your parcel: [32m50
// [0mPlease enter the[31m height [0mof your parcel: [32m50
//
// [0mThe parcel has an actual weight of: PLACEHOLDER
// [0mThe parcel has a dimensional weight of: PLACEHOLDER
// [0mThe parcel has the following dimensions: PLACEHOLDER
// [0mThe parcel has a shipping cost of: PLACEHOLDER
//
// [0mWill you be shipping any additional parcels? (Y/N): [32my
//
// [0m Data for Parcel # 4
//
// Please enter the[31m weight [0mof your parcel: [32m50
// [0mPlease enter the[31m length [0mof your parcel: [32m50
// [0mPlease enter the[31m width [0m of your parcel: [32m50
// [0mPlease enter the[31m height [0mof your parcel: [32m50
//
// [0mThe parcel has an actual weight of: PLACEHOLDER
// [0mThe parcel has a dimensional weight of: PLACEHOLDER
// [0mThe parcel has the following dimensions: PLACEHOLDER
// [0mThe parcel has a shipping cost of: PLACEHOLDER
//
// [0mWill you be shipping any additional parcels? (Y/N): [32my
//
// [0m Data for Parcel # 5
//
// Please enter the[31m weight [0mof your parcel: [32m50
// [0mPlease enter the[31m length [0mof your parcel: [32m50
// [0mPlease enter the[31m width [0m of your parcel: [32m50
// [0mPlease enter the[31m height [0mof your parcel: [32m50
//
// [0mThe parcel has an actual weight of: PLACEHOLDER
// [0mThe parcel has a dimensional weight of: PLACEHOLDER
// [0mThe parcel has the following dimensions: PLACEHOLDER
// [0mThe parcel has a shipping cost of: PLACEHOLDER
//
// [0mWill you be shipping any additional parcels? (Y/N): [32my
//
// [0m Data for Parcel # 6
//
// Please enter the[31m weight [0mof your parcel: [32mchickens
// Exception in thread "main" java.util.InputMismatchException
// at java.base/java.util.Scanner.throwFor(Scanner.java:947)
// at java.base/java.util.Scanner.next(Scanner.java:1602)
// at java.base/java.util.Scanner.nextDouble(Scanner.java:2573)
// at
// edu.unlv.mis768.kly.individualassignment3.ShippingCalculatorDemo.main(ShippingCalculatorDemo.java:44)
// */
//
// //Please enter the file name where you would like to print your transcript:
// D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\
// unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment2\transcript02292024.txt
// //Data has been written to D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\
// unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment2\transcript02292024.txt successfully.
// //
// //Enter a course number for entry # 1: Advanced Studies in Chickens 101
// //Enter credit hours for entry # 1: 3
// //Enter letter grade earned for entry # 1: a
// //Do you have additional course details to enter? (Y/N): y
// //Enter a course number for entry # 2: advanced studies in geese 102
// //Enter credit hours for entry # 2: 3
// //Enter letter grade earned for entry # 2: a
// //Do you have additional course details to enter? (Y/N): y
// //Enter a course number for entry # 3: intermediate duck related conspiracy
// theories 103
// //Enter credit hours for entry # 3: a
// //Exception in thread "main" java.util.InputMismatchException
// // at java.base/java.util.Scanner.throwFor(Scanner.java:947)
// // at java.base/java.util.Scanner.next(Scanner.java:1602)
// // at java.base/java.util.Scanner.nextInt(Scanner.java:2267)
// // at java.base/java.util.Scanner.nextInt(Scanner.java:2221)
// // at
// edu.unlv.mis768.kly.individualassignment2.CreateTranscriptDemo.main(CreateTranscriptDemo.java:59)
// //
// //
// // Enter a course number for entry # 1: Advanced Studies in Chickens 232
// //Enter credit hours for entry # 1: 4
// //Enter letter grade earned for entry # 1: a
// //Do you have additional course details to enter? (Y/N): y
// //Enter a course number for entry # 2: Advanced Studies in Orange Juice 443
// //Enter credit hours for entry # 2: 3.5
// //Exception in thread "main" java.util.InputMismatchException
// // at java.base/java.util.Scanner.throwFor(Scanner.java:947)
// // at java.base/java.util.Scanner.next(Scanner.java:1602)
// // at java.base/java.util.Scanner.nextInt(Scanner.java:2267)
// // at java.base/java.util.Scanner.nextInt(Scanner.java:2221)
// // at
// edu.unlv.mis768.kly.individualassignment2.CreateTranscriptDemo.main(CreateTranscriptDemo.java:59)
// //
// //
// // String red = "\u001B[31m";
// // String reset = "\u001B[0m";
// //
// // ANSI escape codes
// //
// // String black = "\u001B[30m";
// // String red = "\u001B[31m";
// // String green = "\u001B[32m";
// // String reset = "\u001B[0m";
// //
// // Black: \u001B[30m
// // Red: \u001B[31m
// // Green: \u001B[32m
// // Yellow: \u001B[33m
// // Blue: \u001B[34m
// // Magenta: \u001B[35m
// // Cyan: \u001B[36m
// // White: \u001B[37m
//
// //System.out.println("[31mGreetings: [0m Utilize this terminal to determine
// the shipping costs of your parcel.");
// /*
// Nectar
// Enter a course number for entry # 1: Orange Juice 232
// Enter credit hours for entry # 1: 3
// Enter letter grade earned for entry # 1: a
// Do you have additional course details to enter? (Y/N): y
// Enter a course number for entry # 2: Lemonade 443
// Enter credit hours for entry # 2: 3
// Enter letter grade earned for entry # 2: a
// Do you have additional course details to enter? (Y/N): y
// Enter a course number for entry # 3: Milk 868
// Enter credit hours for entry # 3: 3
// Enter letter grade earned for entry # 3: c
// Do you have additional course details to enter? (Y/N): y
// Enter a course number for entry # 4: Nectar
// Enter credit hours for entry # 4: 3
// Enter letter grade earned for entry # 4: a
// Do you have additional course details to enter? (Y/N): n
// Grade Point Average: 3.50
// Would you like to printout of your transcript? (Y/N): y
//
//
//
//
// */
// // public class ShippingCalculatorDemo {
// // The name of a class should be a noun/noun-phrase.
// // I'm frustrated right now. everything is a disaster, and nothing is going
// right.'
// // and I don't anticipate things getting better. this is a nightmare.'
//
//
// /*
// "Dimensional weight, also known as volumetric weight, is a pricing technique
// used
// by postal services and commercial freight companies. It's based on the cubic
// capacity
// of a package, rather than its weight.""
// */

// I'm really stressed out right now. such a nightmare - I filed a software copyright for the computer program for
// individual assignment # 3.

// here is one of the major challenges I'm facing right now.
// I won't get any credit for turning in a group project because I would have to be part of a group
// in order to receive any credit for doing a group project. and it's due. later today. this is a nightmare.

// I don't know what to do - life is such a nightmare
// a real nightmare.
// a headache beyond anything anyone can imagine.

// there is a strong chance that I will have to audit this course MIS 768 // and
// that's a nightmare // and a disappointment
// a real disappointment for me.

/*
 * Microsoft Windows [Version 10.0.22631.3155]
(c) Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

C:\Users\KLYam>javac
Usage: javac <options> <source files>
where possible options include:
  @<filename>                  Read options and filenames from file
  -Akey[=value]                Options to pass to annotation processors
  --add-modules <module>(,<module>)*
        Root modules to resolve in addition to the initial modules,
        or all modules on the module path if <module> is ALL-MODULE-PATH.
  --boot-class-path <path>, -bootclasspath <path>
        Override location of bootstrap class files
  --class-path <path>, -classpath <path>, -cp <path>
        Specify where to find user class files and annotation processors
  -d <directory>               Specify where to place generated class files
  -deprecation
        Output source locations where deprecated APIs are used
  --enable-preview
        Enable preview language features.
        To be used in conjunction with either -source or --release.
  -encoding <encoding>         Specify character encoding used by source files
  -endorseddirs <dirs>         Override location of endorsed standards path
  -extdirs <dirs>              Override location of installed extensions
  -g                           Generate all debugging info
  -g:{lines,vars,source}       Generate only some debugging info
  -g:none                      Generate no debugging info
  -h <directory>
        Specify where to place generated native header files
  --help, -help, -?            Print this help message
  --help-extra, -X             Print help on extra options
  -implicit:{none,class}
        Specify whether to generate class files for implicitly referenced files
  -J<flag>                     Pass <flag> directly to the runtime system
  --limit-modules <module>(,<module>)*
        Limit the universe of observable modules
  --module <module>(,<module>)*, -m <module>(,<module>)*
        Compile only the specified module(s), check timestamps
  --module-path <path>, -p <path>
        Specify where to find application modules
  --module-source-path <module-source-path>
        Specify where to find input source files for multiple modules
  --module-version <version>
        Specify version of modules that are being compiled
  -nowarn                      Generate no warnings
  -parameters
        Generate metadata for reflection on method parameters
  -proc:{none,only,full}
        Control whether annotation processing and/or compilation is done.
  -processor <class1>[,<class2>,<class3>...]
        Names of the annotation processors to run;
        bypasses default discovery process
  --processor-module-path <path>
        Specify a module path where to find annotation processors
  --processor-path <path>, -processorpath <path>
        Specify where to find annotation processors
  -profile <profile>
        Check that API used is available in the specified profile.
        This option is deprecated and may be removed in a future release.
  --release <release>
        Compile for the specified Java SE release.
        Supported releases:
            8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21
  -s <directory>               Specify where to place generated source files
  --source <release>, -source <release>
        Provide source compatibility with the specified Java SE release.
        Supported releases:
            8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21
  --source-path <path>, -sourcepath <path>
        Specify where to find input source files
  --system <jdk>|none          Override location of system modules
  --target <release>, -target <release>
        Generate class files suitable for the specified Java SE release.
        Supported releases:
            8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21
  --upgrade-module-path <path>
        Override location of upgradeable modules
  -verbose                     Output messages about what the compiler is doing
  --version, -version          Version information
  -Werror                      Terminate compilation if warnings occur


C:\Users\KLYam>java D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo\ParcelTerminalDemo.java
D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo\ParcelTerminalDemo.java:48: error: cannot find symbol
                Shipment shipment = new Shipment(billableWeight);
                ^
  symbol:   class Shipment
  location: class ParcelTerminalDemo
D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo\ParcelTerminalDemo.java:48: error: cannot find symbol
                Shipment shipment = new Shipment(billableWeight);
                                        ^
  symbol:   class Shipment
  location: class ParcelTerminalDemo
D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo\ParcelTerminalDemo.java:96: error: no suitable constructor found for Package(double,double,double,double)
                        Package parcelPackage = new Package(packageWeight, packageLength, packageWidth, packageHeight);
                                                ^
    constructor Package.Package(String,String,String,String,String,String,String,URL,ClassLoader) is not applicable
      (actual and formal argument lists differ in length)
    constructor Package.Package(String,Module) is not applicable
      (actual and formal argument lists differ in length)
D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo\ParcelTerminalDemo.java:171: error: cannot find symbol
                                packageWeight = Math.ceil(parcelPackage.keyboard.nextDouble());
                                                                       ^
  symbol:   variable keyboard
  location: variable parcelPackage of type Package
D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo\ParcelTerminalDemo.java:175: error: cannot find symbol
                                parcelPackage.setPackageWeight(packageWeight);
                                             ^
  symbol:   method setPackageWeight(double)
  location: variable parcelPackage of type Package
D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo\ParcelTerminalDemo.java:177: error: cannot find symbol
                                packageWeight = parcelPackage.getPackageWeight();
                                                             ^
  symbol:   method getPackageWeight()
  location: variable parcelPackage of type Package
D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo\ParcelTerminalDemo.java:233: error: cannot find symbol
                                packageLength = Math.ceil(parcelPackage.keyboard.nextDouble());
                                                                       ^
  symbol:   variable keyboard
  location: variable parcelPackage of type Package
D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo\ParcelTerminalDemo.java:234: error: cannot find symbol
                                parcelPackage.setPackageLength(packageLength);
                                             ^
  symbol:   method setPackageLength(double)
  location: variable parcelPackage of type Package
D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo\ParcelTerminalDemo.java:238: error: cannot find symbol
                                packageLength = parcelPackage.getPackageLength();
                                                             ^
  symbol:   method getPackageLength()
  location: variable parcelPackage of type Package
D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo\ParcelTerminalDemo.java:350: error: cannot find symbol
                                packageWidth = Math.ceil(parcelPackage.keyboard.nextDouble());
                                                                      ^
  symbol:   variable keyboard
  location: variable parcelPackage of type Package
D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo\ParcelTerminalDemo.java:351: error: cannot find symbol
                                parcelPackage.setPackageWidth(packageWidth);
                                             ^
  symbol:   method setPackageWidth(double)
  location: variable parcelPackage of type Package
D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo\ParcelTerminalDemo.java:353: error: cannot find symbol
                                packageWidth = parcelPackage.getPackageWidth(); // packageWidth + packageHeight
                                                            ^
  symbol:   method getPackageWidth()
  location: variable parcelPackage of type Package
D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo\ParcelTerminalDemo.java:418: error: cannot find symbol
                                packageHeight = Math.ceil(parcelPackage.keyboard.nextDouble());
                                                                       ^
  symbol:   variable keyboard
  location: variable parcelPackage of type Package
D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo\ParcelTerminalDemo.java:419: error: cannot find symbol
                                parcelPackage.setPackageHeight(packageHeight);
                                             ^
  symbol:   method setPackageHeight(double)
  location: variable parcelPackage of type Package
D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo\ParcelTerminalDemo.java:421: error: cannot find symbol
                                packageHeight = parcelPackage.getPackageHeight();
                                                             ^
  symbol:   method getPackageHeight()
  location: variable parcelPackage of type Package
15 errors
error: compilation failed

C:\Users\KLYam>D:

D:\>cd GitHub

D:\GitHub>cd MIS76810032024Sprg

D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg>cd src

D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src>cd MIS768

D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768>cd edu

D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu>cd unlv

// D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\ unlv>cd mis768

D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\ unlv\mis768>cd kly

D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly>cd individualassignment3

D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3>cd redo

D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo>
D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo>
D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo>
D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo>ParcelTerminalDemo.java

D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo>
ParcelTerminalDemo.java

D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo>
javac ParcelTerminalDemo.java
ParcelTerminalDemo.java:20: error: illegal unicode escape
D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo\ParcelTerminalDemo.java
                                             ^
1 error

D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo>D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo\ParcelTerminalDemo.java

D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo>
D:

D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo>cd GitHub
The system cannot find the path specified.

D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo>cd MIS76810032024Sprg
The system cannot find the path specified.

D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo>cd src
The system cannot find the path specified.

D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo>cd MIS768
The system cannot find the path specified.

D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo>cd edu
The system cannot find the path specified.

D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo>cd unlv
The system cannot find the path specified.

D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo>cd mis768
The system cannot find the path specified.

D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo>cd kly
The system cannot find the path specified.

D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo>cd individualassignment3
The system cannot find the path specified.

D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo>cd redo
The system cannot find the path specified.

D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo>java ParcelTerminalDemo.java
ParcelTerminalDemo.java:50: error: cannot find symbol
                Shipment shipment = new Shipment(billableWeight);
                ^
  symbol:   class Shipment
  location: class ParcelTerminalDemo
ParcelTerminalDemo.java:50: error: cannot find symbol
                Shipment shipment = new Shipment(billableWeight);
                                        ^
  symbol:   class Shipment
  location: class ParcelTerminalDemo
ParcelTerminalDemo.java:98: error: no suitable constructor found for Package(double,double,double,double)
                        Package parcelPackage = new Package(packageWeight, packageLength, packageWidth, packageHeight);
                                                ^
    constructor Package.Package(String,String,String,String,String,String,String,URL,ClassLoader) is not applicable
      (actual and formal argument lists differ in length)
    constructor Package.Package(String,Module) is not applicable
      (actual and formal argument lists differ in length)
ParcelTerminalDemo.java:173: error: cannot find symbol
                                packageWeight = Math.ceil(parcelPackage.keyboard.nextDouble());
                                                                       ^
  symbol:   variable keyboard
  location: variable parcelPackage of type Package
ParcelTerminalDemo.java:177: error: cannot find symbol
                                parcelPackage.setPackageWeight(packageWeight);
                                             ^
  symbol:   method setPackageWeight(double)
  location: variable parcelPackage of type Package
ParcelTerminalDemo.java:179: error: cannot find symbol
                                packageWeight = parcelPackage.getPackageWeight();
                                                             ^
  symbol:   method getPackageWeight()
  location: variable parcelPackage of type Package
ParcelTerminalDemo.java:235: error: cannot find symbol
                                packageLength = Math.ceil(parcelPackage.keyboard.nextDouble());
                                                                       ^
  symbol:   variable keyboard
  location: variable parcelPackage of type Package
ParcelTerminalDemo.java:236: error: cannot find symbol
                                parcelPackage.setPackageLength(packageLength);
                                             ^
  symbol:   method setPackageLength(double)
  location: variable parcelPackage of type Package
ParcelTerminalDemo.java:240: error: cannot find symbol
                                packageLength = parcelPackage.getPackageLength();
                                                             ^
  symbol:   method getPackageLength()
  location: variable parcelPackage of type Package
ParcelTerminalDemo.java:352: error: cannot find symbol
                                packageWidth = Math.ceil(parcelPackage.keyboard.nextDouble());
                                                                      ^
  symbol:   variable keyboard
  location: variable parcelPackage of type Package
ParcelTerminalDemo.java:353: error: cannot find symbol
                                parcelPackage.setPackageWidth(packageWidth);
                                             ^
  symbol:   method setPackageWidth(double)
  location: variable parcelPackage of type Package
ParcelTerminalDemo.java:355: error: cannot find symbol
                                packageWidth = parcelPackage.getPackageWidth(); // packageWidth + packageHeight
                                                            ^
  symbol:   method getPackageWidth()
  location: variable parcelPackage of type Package
ParcelTerminalDemo.java:420: error: cannot find symbol
                                packageHeight = Math.ceil(parcelPackage.keyboard.nextDouble());
                                                                       ^
  symbol:   variable keyboard
  location: variable parcelPackage of type Package
ParcelTerminalDemo.java:421: error: cannot find symbol
                                parcelPackage.setPackageHeight(packageHeight);
                                             ^
  symbol:   method setPackageHeight(double)
  location: variable parcelPackage of type Package
ParcelTerminalDemo.java:423: error: cannot find symbol
                                packageHeight = parcelPackage.getPackageHeight();
                                                             ^
  symbol:   method getPackageHeight()
  location: variable parcelPackage of type Package
15 errors
error: compilation failed

D:\GitHub\MIS76810032024Sprg\src\MIS768\edu\unlv\mis768\kly\individualassignment3\redo>
 */
 
 		// I no longer need this, it works, and I know that //
		// System.out.println(packageShippingChargeArray);
		// keyboard.nextLine(); // this is for testing .length // packageHeight =
		// Math.ceil(parcelPackage.keyboard.nextDouble());
		// public int theFrequentShipperIdentificationNumber;
		// I might have to move this into the Shipment class
		// int theFrequentShipperIdentificationNumber;
		// System.out.print(reset+"Please enter your frequent shipper identification
		// number: " + green);
		// theFrequentShipperIdentificationNumber = keyboard.nextInt();
		// // int // packageShippingChargeArrayLength =0;
		// int packageShippingChargeArrayLength = packageShippingChargeArray.length;
		// System.out.println("You are shipping a total of "+ +); //
		// packageShippingChargeArray.length; packageShippingChargeArray.length
		// This is finally done. I'm not even really ready to read about whatever
		// shortcomings it has.
		// i changed this to string to make it easier to process, there
		// kept being an integer error, so i figured, a shipper number
		// is really more like a numberName rather than // it's
		// basically a numerical name, not a real number.
		// Integer.parseInt(keyboard.nextLine());// keyboard.nextInt(); //
		// Integer.parseInt(keyboard.nextInt())
		// int // packageShippingChargeArrayLength =0;
		// int packageShippingChargeArrayLength = packageShippingChargeArray.size(); //
		// what a nightmare, .length is for an array, for an array list, you use .size()
		// I don't know why I have to do this, but I have -- and i mean, it's required
		// by the assignment that I do this.
		// when i say: i have to do this, I have to make a distinction between my own
		// issues, and the assignment requirements,
		// but i basically have to push the customer ID into the shipment class.
		// and pull it right back out. hahahaha - nightmare.

		// actually I don't think I have to pull it back out, i just have to push it in.
		// i'll pull it out, in the sense that it factors into the discounts, but it's
		// not otherwise being pulled back out in it's original form.
		
		// packageShippingChargeArray.length; packageShippingChargeArray.length
		// this pushes the number of packages into the Shipment.java class //
		// shipment.// setTheTotalNumberOfPackages(int theTotalNumberOfPkgs)
		
		
...

			// System.out.print(reset+"Will you be shipping any additional parcels? ("+
			// green +"Y"+reset+"/"+reset+red+"N"+reset+"): "+green); // this was a headache
			// just to make the Y and N green and red
			// I really want to remove these parentheses // let's see if it works.
			// char yesOrNoEntry = keyboard.next().charAt(0); // allows a Y/N
			// or Yes/No response
			// keyboard.next
			// keyboard.nextLine(); // what a nightmare.
			
			
...

			// Shipment shipment = new Shipment();

			// Shipment shipment = new Shipment(billableWeight);
			
			// i really don't know how to resolve this issue.
			// (formatDoubleDollars.format)

			// DecimalFormat formatDoubleDollars = new DecimalFormat("0.00");
			// i don't know what to do here
			// I think that I got this thing to work. let's see if it actually does work or
			// not.

			// System.out.println(packageShippingChargeArray);
			// packageShippingChargeArray
			// I know what the issue is: I changed the name of the array earlier //
			// shipment.packageShippingCostsArray.add(billableWeight);

			// CreateTranscript transcript = new CreateTranscript(courseNumber, courseHours,
			// letterGrade);
			// transcript.setLetterGrade(letterGrade);
			// numberGradeArray.add(transcript.getNumberGrade());

			// shipment.packageShippingCostsArray.add(billableWeight)
			// numberGradeArray.add(transcript.getNumberGrade()); // letter grade converted
			// to numerical value and added to array
			// shipment.addShippingCost(billableWeight); //
			// packageShippingCostsArray.add(shippingCost);

			// System.out.println(reset+"The parcel has a dimensional weight of: " +
			// formatDouble.format(dimensionalWeight));
			// entryNumber++;
			
...

What a nightmare. I'm going to have to audit MIS 768

...

do stock trade settlements occur at the end or beginning of the trading day

Currently, settlement date occurs two business days after trade date, but recent rule amendments from the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and conforming FINRA rule changes will soon make that cycle one day shorter.Jan 30, 2024

The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) announced that it would shorten the standard settlement period from T+2 to T+1, which is expected to take effect in May 2024. 

https://www.finra.org/investors/insights/understanding-settlement-cycles#:~:text=Currently%2C%20settlement%20date%20occurs%20two,that%20cycle%20one%20day%20shorter.

...